It's the start of a new year, and the jQuery team's been hard at work.
We've been up day and night working to crank out the upcoming jQuery 1.4
release, and there's a LOT to announce! So much, in fact, that we'll
need fourteen full days to get it all out there... As such, I'd like to
announce [The 14 Days of jQuery 1.4](http://jquery14.com/)!
[![The New jQuery 1.4
Site](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4038/4256990310_123e61c690.jpg)](http://jquery14.com/)
Beginning on January 14th, we'll start a fourteen-day event. Each day
we'll have fresh videos and announcements -- there'll be code releases,
project-related updates, and jQuery UI goodness, among other things. In
addition to the announcements, we'll also be releasing a set of videos
over the 14 days with talks and tutorials relating the jQuery 1.4
release and other general jQuery topics. You'll want to check back at
[jQuery14.com](http://jquery14.com/) every day during the two weeks to
see what's new, or sign up to be notified via email. Think of it like an
online conference, only longer, freer, and with a bit of mystery and
suspense! **But Wait, There's More!** We've got a lot planned for
January 14th, but it seemed good to whet your appetite and pre-release
some tasty jQuery morsels. [Head over to
jQuery14.com](http://jquery14.com/pre-release-1/new-jquery-api-site) to
learn all about the brand-new jQuery API site:
[![](http://jquery14.com/media/Screen-shot-2010-01-07-at-10.54.45-PM-300x246.png)](http://jquery14.com/pre-release-1/new-jquery-api-site)
Be sure to subscribe to the [jQuery14.com](http://jquery14.com/) site or
to the [@jquery](http://twitter.com/jquery) Twitter account for all the
updates during these upcoming weeks. **Free Books, Anyone?** The jQuery
project is a non-profit, open-source effort, and we rely heavily on
donations and contributions to help fund everything we do. We'll be
running a fundraising drive starting now and throughout the 14 Days of
jQuery. If you're a jQuery user, show your support by making a
[tax-deductible donation of \$20 USD](http://jquery14.com/donate) or
more to the project during the event, and you'll receive a free jQuery
book with your donation. It's always important to mention that much of
this would not be possible without the help of the jQuery project
sponsors; [Netflix](http://www.netflix.com/), [JupiterIT
Consulting](http://jupiterit.com/),
[appendTo](http://www.appendto.com/), [Fusionary
Media](http://www.fusionary.com/) and [Oxide Design
Co](http://www.oxidedesign.com/) have all signed on as official sponsors
of the 14 Days of jQuery 1.4, along with our favorite jQuery book
publishers, [Manning](http://www.manning.com/),
[Packt](http://www.packtpub.com/), [jQuery
Enlightenment](http://jqueryenlightenment.com/), and
[O'Reilly](http://oreilly.com/). That's it for now -- head on over to
[jQuery14.com](http://jquery14.com/) for much more to come!
