Today we're happy to announce the creation of a new jQuery sub-team
called the jQuery Standards Team to give web developers a voice in the
standards process.

Introduction
------------

We all know that web standards are important. They help ensure the code
we write works across different technologies, for people of different
abilities and most importantly across all browsers.

That said, how often do we all feel our voices, suggestions and ideas
are heard by those groups responsible for defining these standards? The
reality is that whilst many of us would like to see change, due to time
restrictions and lengthy formal processes we're unable to participate in
standards discussions, get involved with writing specifications and
contribute to meetings about the future of features. This makes it
difficult for web developers to have a voice.

![](http://gravatar.com/avatar/428167a3ec72235ba971162924492609?s=140)![](http://gravatar.com/avatar/ffe68d6f71b225f7661d33f2a8908281?s=140)
Yehuda Katz is team lead. Paul Irish joins him.

Another problem is that for those that do get involved with the process,
it can often feel like participating on a particular thread in standards
mailing lists has a limited impact because the web community is so
fragmented. Browser vendors are very active on these lists and there's a
tremendous amount of institutional knowledge assumed in almost all
threads. Implementors on those lists have their own venues for
discussing areas of shared concerns, but web developers wishing to
particpate don't, with the exception of the accidental meetups at
conferences.

The jQuery project would like to help change this - we want you to have
a voice in how the future of the web is shaped.

The jQuery Standards Team
-------------------------

The jQuery Standards Team has three primary goals:

-   To represent the web developer community, in particular jQuery
    users, to standards bodies such as the W3C and TC39 with the
    intention of improving existing standards and standards in progress
    to better meet the needs of web developers.
-   To represent the web developer community, and especially jQuery
    users, to browser vendors with the intent of helping them identify
    standards that they should prioritize for implementing, and proofs
    of concept that they can build.
-   To help the jQuery project adopt new standards and browser features
    as appropriate.

This marks a large change in the way the web developer community is able
to submit feedback and influence both standards bodies and
specifications. By lowering the barrier of entry to having suggestions
and issues about current implementations heard, we hope to encourage
more developers with an interest in dealing with standards bodies and
browser vendors an opportunity to participate in the process.

The jQuery Standards Team is driven by jQuery team members Yehuda Katz
and Paul Irish who some of you may know. Yeuhda and Paul have
extenstively worked with standards bodies and browser vendors in a
number of capacities over the years, with their individual work on
SproutCore and Chrome Developer Relations providing them additional
perspectives that will be useful when advocating for the community.

[![](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/jquerystandards-ss.jpg)](https://github.com/jquery/standards)

You may be wondering why we feel this team deserves to represent the
wider web developer community. Because jQuery is used by such a large
percentage of sites on the web ([over
50%](https://twitter.com/#!/builtwith/status/126908558385229824) of the
top 10,000 sites), we have a good feel for what problems and challenges
are commonly faced and what issues with existing implementations we need
to try working around. As jQuery is also so focused on DOM-manipulation,
the library offers a good source of information for known implementation
issues and their (current) best solutions.

Although the current team is primarily composed of jQuery team members,
we want to get as many developers passionate about standards and
specifications involved with the team as possible. At the end of the
day, the team's goal is to to help identify web developers interested in
the process and give us all a forum for both discussing the process,
ideas and shared areas of concern. We believe that working together, we
can all help build a better web.

Getting Involved
----------------

If you're interested in getting involved with the jQuery Standards Team,
the easiest way is to sign up for [the Google
Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jquery-standards).
Similar to other jQuery sub-teams, there are going to be regular public
meetings in [\#jquery-meeting on freenode](http://jquery.org/meeting/)
(date TBA) to discuss how the team can be as effective as possible in
promoting the needs of the web developer community.

You might have already seen Paul's post [What feature would improve the
web?](http://paulirish.com/2011/what-feature-would-improve-the-web/) --
if your feedback was captured there, you've already gotten involved. ;)

You can also report (or comment) on standard or specification issues in
the issue tracker on the [official team Github
repo](https://github.com/jquery/standards). If you're posting new
issues, try to identify problems with specs or standards that either
exist or are currently being proposed. Here's [a great example of one
such issue](https://github.com/jquery/standards/issues/2).

We want to collect well-specified and articulated issues with the web
ecosystem and advocate for improvements with the standards bodies or
vendors. For genuine issues, we'll tag them accordingly (eg. W3C, TC39,
Browser-vendor etc.) and if applicable, file tickets with the
appropriate standards groups or browser vendors so you don't have to.

Conclusions
-----------

By creating this new forum we hope to give a voice to the millions of
web developers interested in contributing to the process, but without an
easy way to do so. Please let us know what your thoughts are about the
team as we want to improve it as much as possible. We look forward to
hearing your comments, suggestions and ideas about both it and the
standards process!
