(BOSTON) -- The jQuery Board, in conjunction with Software Freedom
Conservancy, is proud to announce the formation of the jQuery
Foundation, Inc., an independent organization that will manage jQuery,
the Internet's number one JavaScript library, and its constituent
projects.

The jQuery Board previously administered jQuery under the aegis of the
Conservancy, a public charity that acts as a non-profit home for free
software projects. The new jQuery Foundation is a non-profit trade
association dedicated to supporting development of the jQuery Core, UI,
and Mobile projects; providing jQuery documentation and support; and
fostering the jQuery community. Dave Methvin, who recently took over as
the head of the jQuery Core development team, will also serve as the
Foundation’s President. “jQuery is the most popular JavaScript library,
and creating an autonomous organization is the next step in ensuring its
future development and benefiting everyone who uses jQuery,” said
Methvin. “We'll be announcing several initiatives shortly, including the
next jQuery Conference and other efforts driven by needs within the
community and the project.” “I'm extremely excited to see the jQuery
Foundation springing to life. I'm glad that Dave Methvin is leading the
foundation and the direction of the core library. He's a good friend and
exceedingly capable of moving jQuery forward,” said John Resig, who
created the library in 2005. “Meanwhile, I've been spending more time
focusing on improving the state of JavaScript and programming education
at Khan Academy. I’m psyched to be a part of the jQuery core team and
Foundation and can't wait to see how jQuery grows in the upcoming
years.” “We are proud that the jQuery Board has built jQuery into a
vibrant and successful Open Source community under Conservancy's
mentorship,” said Bradley Kuhn, Executive Director of the Software
Freedom Conservancy. “Our mission includes helping member projects
determine whether to form their own organization, and we're pleased
jQuery is the first Conservancy project to take that step.” The jQuery
Foundation would like to thank Joel G. Kinney of [Fort Point
Legal](http://fortpoint.me/ "Fort Point Legal"), whose generous pro-bono
counsel has been invaluable in transitioning to an independent
organization. The Foundation is also proud to accept an honorary first
donation from the [Linux Fund](http://www.linuxfund.org/ "Linux Fund"),
which has chosen to continue its tradition of supporting the open source
community with a contribution to the Foundation’s inaugural operating
expense budget. **About jQuery** Created in 2005 by John Resig as a
JavaScript library to provide an intuitive approach for working with the
DOM and Ajax, jQuery has steadily gained popularity among the
development community and is the most widely-adopted JavaScript library
in use today. **About the jQuery Foundation** [The jQuery
Foundation](http://jquery.org "jQuery Foundation") is a non-profit trade
association and the home of jQuery, the Internet's number one JavaScript
library.  Founded by a group of leading JavaScript developers and
architects, the jQuery Foundation is dedicated to three goals:
 supporting development of the jQuery Core, UI, and Mobile projects;
providing jQuery documentation and support; and fostering the jQuery
community. jQuery Foundation, Inc. is a Delaware non-profit currently
seeking IRS 501(c)(6) status.  Donations to the jQuery Foundation will
be used to further the goals of the Foundation.  For more information,
visit [http://jquery.org](http://jquery.org/). **About Software Freedom
Conservancy** [Software Freedom
Conservancy](http://sfconservancy.org/ "Software Freedom Conservancy")is
a non-profit organization that helps promote, improve, develop and
defend Free, Libre and Open Source software projects.  Conservancy is a
home to twenty-eight software projects, each supported by a dedicated
community of volunteers, developers, and users.  Conservancy's projects
include some of the most widely used software systems in the world
across many application areas, including educational software deployed
in schools around the globe, embedded software systems deployed in most
consumer electronic devices, distributed version control developer
tools, integrated library services systems, and widely used graphics and
art programs.  A full list of Conservancy's projects can be found at
[http://sfconservancy.org/members/current/](http://sfconservancy.org/members/current/).
 Conservancy provides to these projects the necessary infrastructure and
not-for-profit support services to enable the project's communities to
focus on what they do best: creating innovative software and advancing
computing for the public's benefit.
