The original idea of the ARIA Hackathon was to get developers of jQuery
UI and experts for ARIA together in one room, connect them, share
knowledge and work on the accessibility of jQuery UI. Meeting at the
Inclusive Design Research Centre (IDRC) of OCAD University in Toronto,
several members of the jQuery UI team (Richard, Scott, Dan, Jörn),
various developers at OCAD (Michelle, Justin, Antranig, Harris), around
Toronto (Ates, George, Darcy) and further away (Mat from Boston, Candace
and William from the University of Washington and Jerry from the
University of Illinois) learned a ton about testing and developing for
screenreader users, about the ARIA standard and its process, as well as
Mozilla’s efforts on accessibility.

-   Colin Clark gave an overview of the work of the IDRC team, including
    the Fluid project which makes use of jQuery UI.
-   Hans Hillen provided a lot of very practical insight on testing and
    developing with JAWS and NVDA and the ARIA spec and DHTML
    styleguide.
-   Jospeh Scheuhammer, heavily involved in the ARIA standards process,
    gave insight on how the process works like, how to provide feedback
    and which documents can and should be used along with the main
    specification.
-   David Bolter provided an overview of Mozilla’s efforts on Firefox
    accessibility, also covering the state and future of Firefox Mobile.
-   Finally Jennison Asuncion demonstrated usage of JAWS on regular
    websites, giving the spectators (or rather, listeners) a much better
    understanding of how a blind user actually uses a screenreader. He’s
    also an incredibly nice guy.

In a group discussion, we defined latest NVDA on latest Firefox as the
supported setup for ARIA and acccessiblity, while also testing with JAWS
on Windows and VoiceOver on OSX. We will accept reasonable patches for
other or older ATs if the code is maintainable and doesn’t break ARIA in
spec-conforming ATs. After the two days of the main event, Hans and Jörn
stayed till Friday to work on the keyboard and accessibility
implementation of multiple jQuery UI widgets. Jörn also had meetings
with Justin and Michelle at OCAD and Bobby and David at Mozilla to
recruit them for jQuery UI and the Testing subteam (QUnit, TestSwarm).
There is a lot of mutual interest that should lead to a lot more
collaboration going forward. Special thanks go out to IDRC and Colin
Clark for hosting the event and Mozilla and David Bolter for funding
some of the travel and lodging expenses. For a mostly complete list of
attendees (and links to Twitter and GitHub profiles) and various
resources gathered during the event, visit the [events page on our
planning wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/w/page/38817541/ARIA-Hackathon).
