In nature, an ecosystem consists of the organisms, raw materials, and
all of the complex interactions that shape their shared environment. The
open source ecosystem is no different. Each project has its niche, and
any package that is a dependency of course has dependencies of its own.
jQuery is used on millions of websites, but we wouldn't be there without
the excellent tools on which we rely to build, test, and distribute our
code. One such tool is [Mihai Bazon's](http://lisperator.net/) excellent
[UglifyJS](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS). We've been using Uglify
to compress jQuery, jQuery UI, and jQuery Mobile for nearly two years
now, so if you've used any of our minified builds recently, you've
benefited from Mihai's work. Recently, he began work on [UglifyJS
2.0](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS2), which will feature even
better compression, support for [source
maps](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/developertools/sourcemaps/),
and a command line utility. He also announced a **[Pledgie
campaign](http://pledgie.com/campaigns/18110)** to support his efforts.
Here at the [Foundation](http://jquery.org), our goal is not just to
improve libraries that start with "jQuery," but rather the entire
JavaScript ecosystem in which we all participate. That's why we're happy
today to announce some exciting news - and to issue a challenge!
Help build UglifyJS 2.0!\
[![Click here to lend your support to: Funding development of UglifyJS
2.0 and make a donation at www.pledgie.com
!](http://www.pledgie.com/campaigns/18110.png?skin_name=chrome)](http://www.pledgie.com/campaigns/18110)
**We've just kicked in 500€ to the campaign to recognize his work so
far, but there's more we all can do. If the community can [help us to
help Mihai reach his goal of
3,000€](http://pledgie.com/campaigns/18110)  by the end of September,
we'll donate an additional 500€ to the UglifyJS 2.0 project!** ****We're
looking forward to keeping you posted on the progress here, and
participating in similar endeavors in the future to help improve the
tools we use each day. In the meantime, thanks for considering a
donation (even a small one), and if we haven't convinced you yet,
perhaps this final exhortation will: **THINK OF THE BYTES!** **Update
(5:30): **Awesome! The [Dojo Foundation has matched our
donation](http://dojotoolkit.org/blog/dojo-foundation-provides-e500-match-to-assist-development-of-uglifyjs-2-0)!
