This month, the jQuery Foundation is celebrating our first year serving
the web. As a not-for-profit trade association, we're here to connect
every business and individual that cares about jQuery and help them work
together to ensure its continued success. Writing code and
documentation, hosting trainings and conferences, and collaborating in
the standards process. This makes jQuery better and it makes web
development better. jQuery is more than just a JavaScript library, it is
a community and an integral part of the web developer's toolset today.
The jQuery Foundation exists in part to ensure this community continues
to grow and thrive. Throughout this first year, we've invited companies
to join the jQuery Foundation in support of this mission, and [14
companies](http://jquery.org/members/) have joined at various levels. We
appreciate their commitment to jQuery and their support of its mission
to support the libraries, their documentation, and our web standards
advocacy.

Individual Membership Program
-----------------------------

You can now [join the jQuery Foundation](http://jquery.org/join/) as an
individual member. Just as with companies, we have created various
levels based on contributions. The benefits include buttons, stickers,
badges, banners, discounted conference tickets, discounts from member
companies, invites to members-only parties at conferences, and
recognition on [our member listing](http://jquery.org/members/). We've
prepared a thank you gift for each level to provide an extra incentive
for folks to make an annual dues commitment. [Join
Now](http://jquery.org/join/)

Badge of Honor
--------------

We've prepared badges and banners for our members to sport on their
website, or their choice of social network. Huge thanks to Isaac Durazo
([@isaacdm](https://twitter.com/isaacdm)) from Bocoup for drawing these
up. ![](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/badges.png)

What if I Can't Contribute On A Recurring Basis?
------------------------------------------------

The individual membership program is designed for those who want to
contribute a set amount of dues to jQuery regularly, as well as enjoy
the benefits of that membership. If that's not what you're looking for,
we always welcome one-time donations (from companies or individuals) via
PayPal and check at [jquery.org/donate](http://jquery.org/donate/)

Moving Forward
--------------

The jQuery team, together with the support of [member
companies](http://jquery.org/members) have achieved tremendous success
in Year One. We have tripled the number of conferences, gathering with
communities around the globe (Asia, Europe, Canada, and UK). We have
redesigned (nearly) all our web sites and made contributing to them as
easy as contributing to code. We continue to wrangle bug queues and
deliver smaller, faster, better tested, and more robust code. We have 4
official representatives at the W3C and ECMA TC39. We've managed to do
this all in our first year, and we're very much looking forward to what
we can accomplish in the future. [Join us!](http://jquery.org/join/)
