The sold-out [jQuery Conference 2008](http://events.jquery.com/), being
held in Boston at the [MIT Stata
Center](http://www.csail.mit.edu/contact/contact.html) on September
28th, is nearly upon us. With 13 sessions being delivered by the [jQuery
team](http://docs.jquery.com/Contributors) as well as prominent industry
experts such as [Jonathan Snook](http://snook.ca), [Aza
Raskin](http://www.azarask.in/blog/) and [Cody
Lindley](http://www.codylindley.com/), this is sure to be a stellar
event. The conference has been broken out into two tracks, Beginner and
Advanced, to allow developers of various jQuery expertise to take full
advantage of the sessions that will be suit their needs. Below you will
find the agenda for the conference. In the interest of sharing
information, we wanted to put up the agenda as soon as possible. We will
be releasing another page shortly that will provide topic descriptions
as well as bios for each of the speakers.

### Featured Presenters:

##### John Resig

![John
Resig](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_johnresig.jpg)

**[John Resig](http://ejohn.org/)** is the creator and lead developer of
the [jQuery JavaScript library](http://jquery.com/). He's also a
JavaScript Evangelist for the [Mozilla Corporation](http://mozilla.com/)
and the author of the book [Pro JavaScript
Techniques](http://jspro.org/).

Currently, John is located in Boston, MA. He's hard at work on his
second book, [Secrets of the JavaScript Ninja](http://jsninja.com/), due
in bookstores Late 2008.

##### Joern Zaefferer

![Joern
Zaefferer](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_joernzaefferer.jpg)

**[JoÌˆrn Zaefferer](http://bassistance.de/)** is a member of the core
jQuery team. Along his work on jQuery itself, he wrote and maintains
several of the most popular jQuery plugins. JoÌˆrn Zaefferer works as a
consultant for maxence integration technologies GmbH in Cologne,
Germany, where he architects and develops Java-based web applications
for maxence's customers and maxenceâ€™s own products.

##### Jonathan Snook

![Jonathan
Snook](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_jonathansnook.jpg)

Web designer and developer, **[Jonathan
Snook](http://snook.ca/jonathan/)** moves effortlessly from client-side,
front-end work to hardcore server-side challenges, and his fluency in
CSS, JavaScript, PHP and MySQL make make him the "turn-to" man for many
high-profile clients. Coauthor of Accelerated DOM Scripting and The Art
and Science of CSS, he writes regularly at his popular blog snook.ca,
and for Digital Web and Sitepoint. Jonathan also works with his partners
at Sidebar Creative, makers of world-class websites and innovative
applications.

##### Richard Worth

![Richard
Worth](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_richardworth.jpg)

**[Richard D. Worth](http://rdworth.org/)** is a Web developer in the
Washington, DC area. He works for Fulcrum IT on web services contracts,
primarily for the government. Richard is one of the lead developers of
jQuery UI, a component framework built on top of jQuery, designed to
make Rich Internet Applications as simple as jQuery has made Ajax.
Richard is also a contributing author on dmxzone.com, writing regular
beginner and advanced jQuery UI articles, and has been selected as a
Technical Reviewer for a book on jQuery UI to be published in the fall.

##### Paul Bakaus

![Paul
Bakaus](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_paulbakaus.jpg)

**[Paul Bakaus](http://www.paulbakaus.com/)** is a UI architect living
in Germany. He's the creator and lead of jQuery UI and works for the
open source company Liferay in a full-time sponsored position to jQuery
UI. He's responsible for the overall direction and roadmap of jQuery UI
and he enjoys speaking about his user interface work in many places of
the world. He's also a member of the jQuery core team and takes part in
the discussion of the overall direction of the jQuery project. In the
past, he was largely responsible for creating the jQuery dimensions
plugin (which is now part of the jQuery core) and worked together with
Stefan Petre on the rich effects and components library Interface.

##### Yehuda Katz

![Yehuda
Katz](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_yehudakatz.jpg)

In addition to being the co-author of jQuery In Action, **[Yehuda
Katz](http://www.yehudakatz.com/)** is a contributor to Ruby in Practice
and co-author of the upcoming Merb in Action. He is a core contributor
to DataMapper and jQuery. Before coming to Engine Yard, he worked for on
a construction management tool written in Ruby on Rails and jQuery.
Yehuda is a Merb core developer, contributes to Rubinius, and is taking
a lead role in the development of Engine Yard's new Control Panel.

##### Aza Raskin

![Aza
Raskin](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_azaraskin.jpg)

**[Aza Raskin](http://www.azarask.in/)** is the founder of Humanized
(now part of Mozilla), Songza, and Bloxes. The son of Apple software
pioneer Jef Raskin, he brings a keen interest in human interface design
to everything he does.

##### Karl Swedberg

![Karl
Swedberg](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_karlswedberg.jpg)

After having taught high school English, edited copy for an advertising
agency, and owned a coffee house, **[Karl
Swedberg](http://www.karlswedberg.com/)** began his career as a web
developer three years ago. He now works for Fusionary Media in Grand
Rapids, Michigan, where he specializes in client-side scripting and
interaction design. Karl is an "Evangelist" for the jQuery JavaScript
Library and the co-author of two books, Learning jQuery and jQuery
Reference Guide.

##### Scott Jehl

![Scott
Jehl](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_scottjehl.jpg)

**[Scott Jehl](http://scottjehl.com)** is a designer at [Filament
Group](http://filamentgroup.com), a Boston, MA studio specializing in
web application design and development. At Filament, Scott and his
colleagues frequently contribute design and code to the jQuery
community, and recently built [ThemeRoller](http://themeroller.com), a
theme design application for jQuery UI. Scott leads the design team at
jQuery, and runs [WriteMaps](http://writemaps.com), an ajax web
application for building visual website sitemaps. He enjoys
wake/skate/snowboarding, being outdoors, and spending time with his wife
Stephanie and their two cats.

##### Jonathan Sharp

![Jonathan
Sharp](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_jonathansharp.jpg)

**[Jonathan Sharp](http://jdsharp.us/)** is a standards driven freelance
web designer and developer. With experience in both frontend and backend
technolgoies he brings value in integration delivering a seamless user
experience. Jonathan has also developed a number of jQuery plugins such
as jdMenu, jdNewsScroll and positionBy. Prior to freelancing, Jonathan
worked for Union Pacific Railroad, CSC and Motorola, Inc. in Chicago
after helping found Imprev, Inc. in Bellevue, WA in early 2000. He lives
in Nebraska with his wife, Erin, and their daughter Noel. When not
working he enjoys spending time with his family, playing with their
dogs, and riding off into the sunset on Micah, his draft horse.

##### Kevin Hoyt

![Kevin
Hoyt](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_kevinhoyt.jpg)

**[Kevin Hoyt](http://www.kevinhoyt.org/)** is a Platform Evangelist
with Adobe Systems, Inc. Passionate about engaging user experiences,
you'll most often find him meeting with customers, speaking at
conferences, presenting online seminars, or just enjoying the chance to
share ideas and brainstorm with other developers. When not on the road,
Kevin enjoys spending time with his family, photography and general
aviation.

##### Cody Lindley

![Cody
Lindley](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_codylindley.jpg)

**[Cody Lindley](http://www.codylindley.com/)** is a Christian, husband,
son, brother, professional web developer, and outdoor enthusiast. He
spends the majority of his time sleeping and working, but who doesn't?
In between the daily routines of the average American, he desires an
existence that entails a relationship with God, family, and nature. He
considers himself a bookworm and a novice theologian, but truth be told,
he simply enjoys watching movies and playing Xbox way too much. He is
thankful for the luxury of pursuing his profession as a personal
passion. More details can be found about cody on his site
codylindley.com.

##### Mike Alsup

![Mike
Alsup](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/bio_mikealsup.jpg)

**[Mike Alsup](http://malsup.com/jquery/)** is a Senior Developer at
Click Commerce in Rochester, NY. He has been developing software
solutions for 15 years with a current focus on Java, Swing, J2EE and web
applictions. Involved with the jQuery project since near its inception
in early 2006, Mike has authored many popular plugins including the Form
Plugin, BlockUI, Taconite and Cycle.

### Agenda:

Beginner

Advanced

9:00 - 9:30

Registration, Breakfast

9:30 - 9:55

State of jQuery - John Resig

10:00 - 10:50

Learning jQuery - Karl Swedberg

Optimizing jQuery Core - John Resig

11:00 - 11:50

jQuery Case Studies - Cody Lindley and Jonathan Snook

Writing Scalable jQuery Applications - Yehuda Katz

12:00 - 1:00

Lunch

1:00 - 1:50

Rich Interactivity, Simplified with jQuery UI - Richard Worth

An In-Depth Look at jQuery UI - Paul Bakaus

2:00 - 2:50

Designing Reusable jQuery Components - Scott Jehl

Desktop Applications with jQuery and Adobe AIR - Kevin Hoyt

3:00 - 3:50

Making the Case for jQuery - Jonathan Sharp

Using jQuery in Firefox Extensions - Aza Raskin

4:00 - 4:50

Your First jQuery Plugin - Mike Alsup

Building Robust jQuery Plugins - Joern Zaefferer

5:00 - 6:00

Dinner

Later

Cambridge Brewing Company for drinks and socializing

Full details of the individual sessions, biographies of the speakers,
and additional conference information is forthcoming.
