![Ext JavaScript
Library](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/02/extjs.png)
Today, weâ€™re proud to announce that the [jQuery
Project](http://jquery.com/) and [Jack
Slocum](http://jackslocum.com/)â€™s [Ext Project](http://yui-ext.com/),
have partnered to integrate the amazingly lightweight and powerful
jQuery framework with Extâ€™s awesome UI library. This collaboration
will greatly enhance the capabilities of both projects and expand the
functionality available to developers using the jQuery JavaScript
Library and the Ext UI component suite. Specifically, the upcoming Ext
1.0 release will be able to run, natively, on the jQuery JavaScript
Library. No other libraries will be required. The jQuery and Ext teams
are actively working together to bring this integration to the Ext
codebase. Here's some possible questions and answers (feel free to post
any others that you have in the comments): **What prompted the
collaboration?** Ext has some fantastic components - arguably, the best
on the web. jQuery has all the core functionality to support what Ext
has. The jQuery team contacted Jack Slocum with the hopes that we could
work together to add jQuery support to the Ext library, and Jack
whole-heartedly agreed. It's a win-win situation: jQuery gets some
awesome components, Ext gets a huge influx of new users. **What are the
benefits for jQuery and Ext users?** jQuery users gain a huge number of
expertly-designed components that they will be able to deploy
immediately. Additionally, they'll be able to use them in a manner that
better suits the jQuery philosophy (e.g. being able to call Ext queries
on sets of elements, chaining calls, leveraging jQuery's support for
true unobtrusive DOM scripting etc.) At the same time, existing Ext
users will gain the flexibility of being able to continue to use Extâ€™s
professional-caliber components while leveraging the lightweight, small
(\~19k) and powerful jQuery framework. **How will the two teams work
together?** After the first beta release of Ext 1.0, jQuery will be
providing a strike team which will work to iron out all the integration
points in Ext. At the same time, Jack will be working to isolate all the
remaining framework-specific code, making it easier for us to finish the
conversion process. All of this will be in place for Ext's final 1.0
release, which will support both Yahoo UI and jQuery. **How will support
be handled?** The jQuery team will be providing support for any bugs
that may only exist in the jQuery version of Ext. Support for Ext,
itself, will continue to be handled via the [Ext
forums](http://www.yui-ext.com/forum/). The Ext project will also begin
offering a level of paid support for its corporate users. **What Ext
features will be included in Ext 1.0 for jQuery** All available Ext 1.0
features are going to be supported by jQuery. The final feature list,
for Ext 1.0, is still being finalized but a full breadth of new
functionality can be expected. **When will Ext 1.0 for jQuery be
available?** The final release date still has yet to be finalized and we
will make a formal announcement on the jQuery blog, the jQuery mailing
list, the Ext project site, and the Ext forums once the its ready to go.
An [alpha release of Ext
1.0](http://www.yui-ext.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2819) was just
released, but does not, yet, include the jQuery compatibility layer.
**Do any licensing issues exist?** No. jQueryâ€™s licensing will remain
the same, and Ext 1.0 will be completely open source (LGPL).
Additionally, corporations [will be able to
purchase](http://www.yui-ext.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=2737) an Ext
support license. This will include email support and SVN access, amongst
other features. **Update:** [Digg this story
up!](http://digg.com/programming/jQuery_Ext_Partner_to_Deliver_Integrated_JavaScript_UI_Features)

Examples
--------

Here are examples of what you can do with Ext. (All demos currently run
on Yahoo UI, as the Ext 1.0 alpha release doesn't support jQuery.)
**Paged, Dynamic, Grids** [![Ext Paged
Grid](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/02/Picture%206.png)](http://yui-ext.com/deploy/ext-1.0-alpha1/examples/grid/paging.html)
**Mixed Content Menus** [![Ext Mixed Content
Menus](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/02/Picture%207.png)](http://yui-ext.com/deploy/ext-1.0-alpha1/examples/menu/menus.html)
**Advanced Dialog Layout and Themes** [![Ext Dialog
Layout](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/02/Picture%203.png)](http://yui-ext.com/deploy/ext-1.0-alpha1/examples/dialog/layout.html)
**Message Box Dialog** [![Ext Message Box
Dialog](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/02/Picture%204.png)](http://yui-ext.com/deploy/ext-1.0-alpha1/examples/dialog/msg-box.html)
**Drag-and-Drop Trees** [![Ext Drag and Drop
Trees](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/02/Picture%205.png)](http://yui-ext.com/deploy/ext-1.0-alpha1/examples/tree/two-trees.html)
