The seventh milestone release for jQuery UI 1.9 is out. As its been
seven months since our last milestone release, we've got a lot of
improvements and bug fixes to share. Most notably, the Accordion widget
redesign is done.

### What's a Milestone Release?

A milestone release makes it easier to try out the latest development
code of jQuery UI without necessarily having to check out code from
[GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui). With a milestone release
you can try out new widgets that are pretty far along (though not yet
final) and provide feedback based on released code with a specific
version number.

### Accordion

The Accordion redesign is now fully implemented. We finally have really
solid animations, with no more flickering or jumping of content below.
The ARIA implementation also got a lot better. A big thanks goes to Hans
Hillen for his contributions.

### Menu

Menu now supports other markup than just UL/LI elements. Support for
disabled menu items got a lot better, too.

### A ton of bug fixes

A lot of components have seen a lot of bug fixes. While we continue to
maintain the 1.8 branch, a lot of bugs get only fixed in master. [Here
are all tickets fixed in 1.9, by
component](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/query?resolution=fixed&milestone=1.9&group=component&col=id&col=summary&col=type&col=priority&report=20&order=priority).

### Download

You can download the jQuery UI 1.9 Milestone 7 – Accordion release as a
zip file or via git:

#### [File Downloads](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/downloads/list)

-   Development Bundle:
    [http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m7.zip](http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m7.zip)

#### [Git](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/)

-   Tag:
    [http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m7](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m7)

### How to Provide Feedback

#### wiki page

To help with the testing of the Accordion widget, visit the [Accordion
page](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/Accordion) on our [Development & Planning
wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/).

#### forum

If the comments section on the wiki page doesn't provide enough room for
your feedback, post to the [Developing jQuery UI
Forum](http://forum.jquery.com/developing-jquery-ui) and tag the post:

-   tag: [jquery ui
    accordion](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-accordion)
-   tag: [jquery ui 1.9m7](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-1.9m7)

### How to Contribute Code

If you have code changes for the Accordion widget, fork [jQuery UI on
GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui) and submit a pull request.
If you're new to git or GitHub, see our guide: [How to submit a fix to
jQuery UI – The Easy
Way](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2010/05/how-to-submit-a-fix-to-jquery-ui-the-easy-way/).

### Comments

*Note: **please do NOT use the comments section of this blog post for
feedback on the Accordion widget.** This discussion should occur on the
wiki page and the forum (see How to Provide Feedback, above).* *If you
have feedback on us doing our sixth milestone release, feel free to
leave a comment below. Thank you.*
