Over the last eight months at the Foundation, we have been working to
expand both the reach and breadth of our events, and we're excited today
to announce the inaugural **[jQuery Developer
Summit](http://events.jquery.org/2012/developer-summit/)**, to be held
**October 15th and 16th, 2012** at the **[Aol Campus in Dulles,
VA](http://goo.gl/maps/yiXa5)**. The Developer Summit will be a
departure from our traditional events. Instead of two days of speakers
and slide decks, we're going to spend a morning giving you a rundown of
how jQuery works, from internals of jQuery Core, to how we build and
test the libraries, to how we manage our websites. Then we'll break
apart into teams, and spend the rest of our time working together to
collaborate on the projects and tools we all use every day. As this is a
more intimate event (and because it's our first time trying it), we can
only accomodate about **150 people**. In order to get the right mix of
skills and experiences into the room, it won't be a simple first-come,
first-served process. Instead, **we'll be accepting and reviewing
submissions to [this application](http://bit.ly/jqdevsummitform)** on a
rolling basis from August 31st until September 7th. In other words, we
have a lot of different bases we'd want to cover, so we can't have 100
people showing up who just want to fix edge case bugs in Quirks mode!
The focus here is on collaboration, growing as an open-source developer,
and having fun! If this sounds like your cup of tea, [read more about
the Developer Summmit
now](http://events.jquery.org/2012/developer-summit/), and consider
applying! And of course, if you have any questions, please don't
hesitate [to ask](mailto:events@jquery.org)!
