The jQuery 1.5 release candidate is now available at
[http://ui.jquery.com/download](http://ui.jquery.com/download) for
everyone to test and download! This is the most stable UI version ever,
and it fixed all known bugs that are not in the categories "minor" or
"trivial", which means that we ourselves think it's good to go. However,
the reason why we're still holding off with the final release is the
fact that we want you to try out every aspect of our release candidate.
Therefore, the jQuery UI team encourages you to try out the demos on the
website in any of the supported browsers, play around with every option
you can find and test in different browsers using the new unit tests,
which we're finalizing right now. If you grab the whole development
package from the website, it will come with unit tests for slider,
draggables and resizables. We are working on other automated tests,
which can be downloaded in the next few days from our SVN. If you find
anything strange going on, or if something isn't working / looking like
it should, that's great :-) ! Please then submit your issue to us via
the new jQuery UI bugtracker at
[http://ui.jquery.com/bugs/newticket](http://ui.jquery.com/bugs/newticket).
This will greatly help us to make the final release as solid as
possible. Now we really don't want you to wait any longer than needed:
I'm very excited to announce that jQuery UI 1.5 will be released and
announced in exactly 6 days, on June 8th, along with updated
documentation and a epic changelog to convince your bosses and
collegues. See you soon! The jQuery UI Team
