The second milestone release for jQuery UI 1.9 is out, featuring the new
Menu widget, in active development. It also includes updates to the
Tooltip widget that we did since our [first milestone
release](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2010/05/jquery-ui-19m1-tooltip/).

### What's a Milestone Release?

A milestone release makes it easier to try out the latest development
code of jQuery UI without necessarily having to check out code from
[GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui). With a milestone release
you can try out new widgets that are pretty far along (though not yet
final) and provide feedback based on released code with a specific
version number. *Note: the API is subject to change as the code is still
under active development.*

### Menu

We'd love your feedback on our new Menu widget, to help ready it for the
1.9 final release. The API is already in good shape, so if you start
using it now, migrating to 1.9 final should be really easy. From the
[Menu documentation](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Menu): Menu transform a
list of anchors into a widget with mouse and keyboard support for
selecting an item. Its a low-level widget already used by Autocomplete
and designed as the base for other widgets, for example, a menu bar or
nested menus. [caption id="attachment\_427" align="alignnone"
width="361" caption="Demo:
Contextmenu"][![](http://cdn.jquery.net/ui-blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/contextmenu.png "Screenshot of a tooltip demo with a tooltip visible")](http://view.jqueryui.com/menu/demos/menu/contextmenu.html)[/caption]

### Demos

Play with the latest demos in the menu branch on our live code view
site,
[view.jqueryui.com](http://view.jqueryui.com/menu/demos/menu/index.html):

-   [Default inline
    menu](http://view.jqueryui.com/menu/demos/menu/default.html)
-   [Overlay
    contextmenu](http://view.jqueryui.com/menu/demos/menu/contextmenu.html)

### Download

You can download the jQuery UI 1.9 Milestone 2 – Menu release as a zip
file or via git:

#### [File Downloads](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/downloads/list)

-   Development Bundle:
    [http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m2.zip](http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m2.zip)

#### [Git](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/)

-   Tag:
    [http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m2](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m2)

### How to Provide Feedback

#### wiki page

To help with the design and development of the Menu widget, visit the
[Menu page](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/Menu) on our [Development &
Planning wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/).

#### forum

If the comments section on the wiki page doesn't provide enough room for
your feedback, post to the [Developing jQuery UI
Forum](http://forum.jquery.com/developing-jquery-ui) and tag the post:

-   tag: [jquery ui menu](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-menu)
-   tag: [jquery ui 19m2](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-1.9m2)

### How to Contribute Code

If you have code changes for the Menu, fork [jQuery UI on
GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui), commit to the [menu
branch](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/menu), and submit a pull
request. If you're new to git or GitHub, see our guide: [How to submit a
fix to jQuery UI – The Easy
Way](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2010/05/how-to-submit-a-fix-to-jquery-ui-the-easy-way/).

### Comments

*Note: **please do NOT use the comments section of this blog post for
feedback on the Menu widget.** This discussion should occur on the wiki
page and the forum (see How to Provide Feedback, above).* *If you have
feedback on us doing our second milestone release, feel free to leave a
comment below. Thank you.*
