The fifth milestone release for jQuery UI 1.9 is out, featuring the
updated Tabs widget. This release also includes updates and bug fixes to
existing and new widgets that will not make it into a 1.8.x release.

### What's a Milestone Release?

A milestone release makes it easier to try out the latest development
code of jQuery UI without necessarily having to check out code from
[GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui). With a milestone release
you can try out new widgets that are pretty far along (though not yet
final) and provide feedback based on released code with a specific
version number. *Note: the API is subject to change as the code is still
under active development.*

### Tabs

The Tabs API has been
[redesigned](http://forum.jquery.com/topic/tabs-api-redesign) for
simplicity, extensibility and consistency with other widgets in jQuery
UI. We'd love to get feedback on any compatibility issues you may have
with existing code. Everything supported in 1.8 should work
out-of-the-box in 1.9; if something breaks, we will work to fix it
before the final release.

### Download

You can download the jQuery UI 1.9 Milestone 5 – Tabs Redesign release
as a zip file or via git:

#### [File Downloads](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/downloads/list)

-   Development Bundle:
    [http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m5.zip](http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m5.zip)

#### [Git](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/)

-   Tag:
    [http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m5](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m5)

### How to Provide Feedback

#### wiki page

To help with the testing of the Tabs redesign, visit the [Tabs
page](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/Tabs) on our [Development & Planning
wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/).

#### forum

If the comments section on the wiki page doesn't provide enough room for
your feedback, post to the [Developing jQuery UI
Forum](http://forum.jquery.com/developing-jquery-ui) and tag the post:

-   tag: [jquery ui tabs](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-tabs)
-   tag: [jquery ui 19m5](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-1.9m5)

### How to Contribute Code

If you have code changes for the Tabs widget, fork [jQuery UI on
GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui) and submit a pull request.
If you're new to git or GitHub, see our guide: [How to submit a fix to
jQuery UI – The Easy
Way](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2010/05/how-to-submit-a-fix-to-jquery-ui-the-easy-way/).

### Comments

*Note: **please do NOT use the comments section of this blog post for
feedback on the Tabs widget.** This discussion should occur on the wiki
page and the forum (see How to Provide Feedback, above).* *If you have
feedback on us doing our fifth milestone release, feel free to leave a
comment below. Thank you.*
