Happy Birthday to jQuery! jQuery is three years old today, after being
released way back on January 14th, 2006 at the first BarCampNYC by John
Resig. We have four announcements for you today, we hope you'll enjoy
them!

jQuery 1.3
----------

First, we have an excellent new release of jQuery ready for you to
enjoy. The big features of this release are:

-   Sizzle: A sizzlin' hot CSS selector engine.
-   Live Events: Event delegation with a jQuery twist.
-   jQuery Event Overhaul: Completely rewired to simplify event
    handling.
-   HTML Injection Rewrite: Lightning-fast HTML appending.
-   Offset Rewrite: Super-quick position calculation.
-   No More Browser Sniffing: Using feature detection to help jQuery
    last for many more years to come.

The full details of the release can be found in the release notes:
**[http://docs.jquery.com/Release:jQuery\_1.3](http://docs.jquery.com/Release:jQuery_1.3)**
We're currently planning on a follow-up jQuery 1.3.1 release sometime
within the next week or two to catch any straggling bugs that might've
slipped through. If you spot any bugs please be sure to submit them to
the [bug tracker](http://dev.jquery.com/).

Sizzle
------

jQuery has a brand new CSS selector engine - nicknamed
'[Sizzle](http://sizzlejs.com/)'. You can read the full details behind
it in the [jQuery 1.3 Release
Notes](http://docs.jquery.com/Release:jQuery_1.3) (including performance
numbers). More importantly, though, we're taking a big leap with Sizzle:
We're releasing it as a completely standalone project to be collaborated
upon by many library creators and developers. We saw an opportunity to
give something back to not just the jQuery community but to the
JavaScript development community as a whole; and at the same time be
able to collaborate with developers of other libraries on a single,
unified, selector engine. We feel that there's too much competition and
not enough collaboration occurring and so we put our code out on the
line as a good first step towards working together. As a sign of good
faith and willingness to collaborate, we've turned over Sizzle to the
[Dojo Foundation](http://dojofoundation.org/) (an excellent non-profit
well suited for this project, not to be confused with the Dojo Toolkit).
We wanted a common meeting ground where all developers would be able to
work together and under which there would be a clear long-term copyright
holder. Our request for collaboration has already seen an amazing
resopnse: Developers from Prototype, Dojo, Yahoo UI, MochiKit, and
TinyMCE (and many other projects) have all shown interest in refining
Sizzle to perfection. A rough Sizzle project page can be found here:
[http://sizzlejs.com/](http://sizzlejs.com/) Along with the full source
code:
[http://github.com/jeresig/sizzle/tree/master](http://github.com/jeresig/sizzle/tree/master)

New API Browser
---------------

Along with the release of jQuery 1.3, I'm pleased to present the new API
browser, developed by [Remy Sharp](http://remysharp.com/), available at:
[http://api.jquery.com/](http://api.jquery.com).

[![jQuery API
Browser](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3389/3196865884_2a1e5fb336.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jeresig/3196865884/ "jQuery API Browser by John Resig, on Flickr")

This is an alternative view to the existing [jQuery
API](http://docs.jquery.com/) that should be easy to navigate and use.
The new API browser includes the following features:

-   All the latest jQuery and jQuery UI documentation.
-   The ability to mark pages as favorites for those pages you keep
    wanting to return to.
-   Syntax highlighting in the code examples
-   Live running of examples within the browser
-   Links to edit and experiment with the code examples

Most importantly though, the API browser is also available offline as an
Adobe AIR application (thanks to [Tane
Piper's](http://digitalspaghetti.me.uk/) AIR framework). The interface
looks and works the same, and includes an auto-update mechanism, so
you'll always be up to date. [Download and install the AIR API
browser](http://api.jquery.com/) If you find problems please submit a
bug to the [bug tracker](http://dev.jquery.com/) under the 'site'
component. Which leads us to the last, and certainly not the least
important, point...

jQuery Foundation
-----------------

With the jQuery Project growing at a tremendous rate, it was important
for us, as a team, to take a step back and determine how the project's
ownership should be handled. Currently, John Resig, jQuery's founder and
lead developer, and Paul Bakaus, lead developer for jQuery UI, both
maintain ownership of their respective projects. This posed several
concerns from a practical and legal perspective as it enjoined two
individuals as the owners of the projects instead of a formal
organization. As more individuals and corporations started contributing
to the projects, these concerns became even more evident causing
confusion as to who were the correct copyright holders for specific
units of work. After meeting up to talk at the recent jQuery Conference,
we decided to really make a concerted effort to fix this and determine
how we could shift ownership of the jQuery projects to a foundation-type
organization that would: 1. Understand the nature of open-source
software development. 2. Allow us to continue to manage the project
unhindered. 3. Ensure that the projects continue to live on regardless
of who is involved in the effort. After examining many options we came
to a final conclusion - and we're excited to announce that the [Software
Freedom Conservancy](http://conservancy.softwarefreedom.org/) has
extended the jQuery project an invitation to join the non-profit
organization and continue developing software under its auspices. By
joining The Software Freedom Conservancy, the jQuery projects and
community immediately realize some important benefits: 1. It allows the
current project members to continue to manage the projects and maintain
ultimate responsibility for the direction of current and future efforts.
2. It allows the projects to be considered a true non-profit efforts
allowing us to be able to accept donations and contributions without
incurring tremendous personal financial liability. 3. The copyright of
the code will be assigned to the conservancy thus ensuring that no
single person will own contributions or assets of the project. 4. It may
allow corporations to write off time when an employee contributes to a
project. 5. Most importantly, it ensures that the jQuery projects will
always be open and free software. This is a big step in formalizing the
jQuery projects and an important accomplishment in ensuring that the
investment being made by the jQuery community is protected. We'll be
making the transition into the conservancy over the coming weeks. There
will be very little, to no, change in how the project will run. The
[jQuery Team](http://docs.jquery.com/Contributors) will still run and
manage the project and we're still going to work hard to build the best
JavaScript library possible. If anything this will help to free up some
of our time so that we can spend more time coding - and who doesn't like
the sound of that? Happy 3rd birthday, jQuery!
