The sixth milestone release for jQuery UI 1.9 is out, featuring many
updates for the Spinner widget. This release also includes updates and
bug fixes to existing and new widgets that will not make it into a 1.8.x
release.

### What's a Milestone Release?

A milestone release makes it easier to try out the latest development
code of jQuery UI without necessarily having to check out code from
[GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui). With a milestone release
you can try out new widgets that are pretty far along (though not yet
final) and provide feedback based on released code with a specific
version number. *Note: the API is subject to change as the code is still
under active development.*

### Spinner

The Spinner API has been updated with a few new features and bug fixes.
Check out the [planning
wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/w/page/12138077/Spinner) for
documentation.

### Menu

Menu now handles submenus much better.

### Position

Position now has a `within` option, allowing you to use something other
then window for collision detection, e.g., a scrolling div. The
collision detection itself got a lot smarter, and has a new mode:
flipfit.

### Download

You can download the jQuery UI 1.9 Milestone 6 – Spinner 2 release as a
zip file or via git:

#### [File Downloads](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/downloads/list)

-   Development Bundle:
    [http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m6.zip](http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m6.zip)

#### [Git](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/)

-   Tag:
    [http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m6](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m6)

### How to Provide Feedback

#### wiki page

To help with the testing of the Spinner widget, visit the [Spinner
page](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/w/page/12138077/Spinner) on our
[Development & Planning wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/).

#### forum

If the comments section on the wiki page doesn't provide enough room for
your feedback, post to the [Developing jQuery UI
Forum](http://forum.jquery.com/developing-jquery-ui) and tag the post:

-   tag: [jquery ui
    spinner](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-spinner)
-   tag: [jquery ui 1.9m6](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-1.9m6)

### How to Contribute Code

If you have code changes for the Spinner widget, fork [jQuery UI on
GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui) and submit a pull request.
If you're new to git or GitHub, see our guide: [How to submit a fix to
jQuery UI – The Easy
Way](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2010/05/how-to-submit-a-fix-to-jquery-ui-the-easy-way/).

### Comments

*Note: **please do NOT use the comments section of this blog post for
feedback on the Spinner widget.** This discussion should occur on the
wiki page and the forum (see How to Provide Feedback, above).* *If you
have feedback on us doing our sixth milestone release, feel free to
leave a comment below. Thank you.*
