jQuery UI 1.6rc5 is available. **Download jQuery UI 1.6rc5** You can
download the entire development bundle directly
[http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery.ui-1.6rc5.zip](http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery.ui-1.6rc5.zip)
This includes a default theme, as well as all the test and demo files.
Or you can create a customized download of individual components
[http://ui.jquery.com/download/](http://ui.jquery.com/download/) and a
custom theme at
[http://ui.jquery.com/themeroller](http://ui.jquery.com/themeroller) Be
sure to grab an updated 1.6rc5 theme, if you got a theme from
ThemeRoller in the last two weeks. (Also, for any users of 1.5.3, there
is a link on ThemeRoller for downloading legacy themes) **Compatibility
with jQuery 1.3** Thank you to the many people that helped test and
contribute fixes to make this release happen. We have fixed a lot of
issues in the two weeks since rc4 and the most major fix is this release
is compatible with jQuery 1.3 ([Happy Birthday
jQuery](http://blog.jquery.com/2009/01/14/jquery-13-and-the-jquery-foundation/))
where 1.6rc4 was only compatible with jQuery 1.2.6. From now on, we ask
that 1.6rc4 is no longer used for testing. Also, from here forward
jQuery UI 1.5.3 will only support jQuery 1.2.6. And jQuery UI 1.6 will
only support jQuery 1.3+ Thanks for any help you can provide to ensure
this release is ready and fully compatible with jQuery 1.3. Please
create a ticket for any issue you find on the jQuery UI bug tracker:
[http://ui.jquery.com/bugs](http://ui.jquery.com/bugs) (note: requires
registration) and send a note for discussion on the jQuery UI
Development mailing list as well:
[http://groups.google.com/group/jquery-ui-dev](http://groups.google.com/group/jquery-ui-dev)
The current schedule is to wrap up 1.6 final by the end of next week.
