The third milestone release for jQuery UI 1.9 is out, featuring the new
Spinner widget, in active development. It also includes updates to the
Tooltip and Menu widgets that we did since our [second milestone
release](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2010/06/jquery-ui-19m2-menu/).

### What's a Milestone Release?

A milestone release makes it easier to try out the latest development
code of jQuery UI without necessarily having to check out code from
[GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui). With a milestone release
you can try out new widgets that are pretty far along (though not yet
final) and provide feedback based on released code with a specific
version number. *Note: the API is subject to change as the code is still
under active development.*

### Spinner

We'd love your feedback on our new Spinner widget, to help ready it for
the 1.9 final release. The API is already in good shape, so if you start
using it now, migrating to 1.9 final should be really easy. A spinner is
a simple widget that allows users to increment or decrement the current
text box value without having to input it manually. Increments do not
have to be whole numbers -- they can be set to decimal values (0.1) or
large increments (5) for each click. The widget uses the
[jquery-global](https://github.com/jquery/jquery-global) plugin for
globalization of numbers, including parsing and formatting of decimal
numbers and currency values. This gives it several hundred cultures that
it can support from the start. [caption id="attachment\_427"
align="alignnone" width="260" caption="Demo:
Currency"][![](http://cdn.jquery.net/ui-blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/spinner-currency-demo.png "Screenshot of the spinner currency demo")](http://view.jqueryui.com/spinner/demos/spinner/currency.html)[/caption]

### Demos

Play with some of the latest demos in the menu branch on our live code
view site,
[view.jqueryui.com](http://view.jqueryui.com/spinner/demos/spinner/index.html):

-   [Default
    spinner](http://view.jqueryui.com/spinner/demos/spinner/default.html)
-   [Decimal
    spinner](http://view.jqueryui.com/spinner/demos/spinner/decimal.html)
-   [Currency
    spinner](http://view.jqueryui.com/spinner/demos/spinner/currency.html)

### Download

You can download the jQuery UI 1.9 Milestone 3 – Spinner release as a
zip file or via git:

#### [File Downloads](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/downloads/list)

-   Development Bundle:
    [http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m3.zip](http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.9m3.zip)

#### [Git](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/)

-   Tag:
    [http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m3](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/1.9m3)

### How to Provide Feedback

#### wiki page

To help with the design and development of the Spinner widget, visit the
[Spinner page](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/Spinner) on our [Development &
Planning wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/).

#### forum

If the comments section on the wiki page doesn't provide enough room for
your feedback, post to the [Developing jQuery UI
Forum](http://forum.jquery.com/developing-jquery-ui) and tag the post:

-   tag: [jquery ui
    spinner](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-spinner)
-   tag: [jquery ui 19m3](http://forum.jquery.com/tag/jquery-ui-1.9m3)

### How to Contribute Code

If you have code changes for the Spinner, fork [jQuery UI on
GitHub](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui), commit to the [spinner
branch](http://github.com/jquery/jquery-ui/tree/spinner), and submit a
pull request. If you're new to git or GitHub, see our guide: [How to
submit a fix to jQuery UI – The Easy
Way](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2010/05/how-to-submit-a-fix-to-jquery-ui-the-easy-way/).

### Comments

*Note: **please do NOT use the comments section of this blog post for
feedback on the Spinner widget.** This discussion should occur on the
wiki page and the forum (see How to Provide Feedback, above).* *If you
have feedback on us doing our third milestone release, feel free to
leave a comment below. Thank you.*
