As many of you have seen by now, the jQuery Project's site has been
redesigned. It had been a long overdue task and it was important to put
a fresh new spin on the main hub, and the face, of jQuery. One of the
things about the jQuery Project is that we've never run with the crowd
or accepted the norm. By pushing boundaries and sometimes being "in your
face" we've not only grown tremendously in popularity but we've pushed
most of the other JS library projects to rethink their own principles
and make changes to improve their products. That's a good thing for
everyone as competition is always good. So, it should come as no
surprise by the drastic change in the jQuery website. So far, the single
biggest complaint has been associated with the new banner (ie: rockstar
caricature & slogan). Again, we wanted to push the boundaries and come
up with something that would generate a lot of buzz. Overall, we've
succeeded in that goal with plenty of positive feedback but
unfortunately, with some very negative comments as well. We actually
value both types of feedback and want more as it's the only way to
determine if we're on the right track. As with any site redesign, you
can't please everyone and we understand that. But we also want everyone
to realize that this is a first cut and it doesn't mean that it can't be
tweaked. We're actively reviewing all of the feedback and will certainly
be looking at how to best handle some of the concerns of the community.
After all, the community is what makes the jQuery Project so special and
so different from other projects. In addition, the jQuery team has
always listened to the needs of the community and this time is no
exception. Again, I think the team is unique in that we \*DO LISTEN\* to
the community and we're going to work on making the site an invaluable
tool for everyone. So just give us some time to go through the messages
and keep an eye on this blog for updates. Thanks for your patience and
we truly appreciate your feedback.
