* * * * *

**UPDATE:** Registration is now open! Register here:
[http://events.jquery.com/](http://events.jquery.com/)

* * * * *

Good news everybody! The dates and venue for this year's jQuery
Conference have been determined. The conference will be held September
12th and 13th at [Microsoft
Cambridge](http://www.microsoftcambridge.com/) in Boston, MA. This will
be a 2 day conference with multiple tracks on each day. We're in the
process of planning out the schedule, talking with speakers, and setting
up the conference web site. **Watch the [jQuery
blog](http://blog.jquery.com/) or [jQuery Twitter
feed](http://twitter.com/jquery) for notification when registration
opens.** While this venue is larger than those that we've had in the
past (Harvard Law School in '07 and the MIT Stata Center in '08) we do
expect to sell out all the available seats, as has happened every year
so far. That being said, the venue is quite incredible, easily one of
the best spaces available for a conference:
[![](http://ejohn.org/files/ms-cambridge.png)](http://www.microsoftcambridge.com)
A brief synopsis of some of the content that you'll be able to expect:

> The annual conference of jQuery users and developers. There will be
> talks on jQuery, jQuery UI, plugins, complex application development,
> and more - all from the top jQuery developers. Case studies from some
> of the leading users of jQuery will be included along with a 3 hour
> tutorial for those just getting started.

You can see the schedules from past jQuery conferences here:
[2008](http://blog.jquery.com/2008/08/31/jquery-conference-2008-agenda/),
[2007](http://docs.jquery.com/JQueryCamp07). There will be a nominal fee
(likely around \$100-\$150) to help us cover to cost of food for both
days and shirts. Looking forward to seeing everyone in Boston this fall!
**Note:** If you are interested in sponsoring the conference, please
[contact John Resig](http://ejohn.org/about/). **Update:** There have
been a lot of questions asking if there will be a conference on the west
coast (San Francisco) or in Europe. While we don't have any immediate
plans to hold conferences in those locations, this year, we would like
to hold them in the future. In the meantime I recommend checking out
[Full Frontal (UK, November)](http://2009.full-frontal.org/) and
[Fronteers (Amsterdam, November)](http://fronteers.nl/) - both of which
should shape up to be excellent JavaScript conferences. **Update:**
Thanks to Jeff for adding the event to
[Upcoming](http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/3017809/).
