Today I'm proud to announce the official opening of the [jQuery Learning
Center](http://learn.jquery.com), a community-driven site dedicated to
helping people learn about jQuery, JavaScript and front-end development.
The goal is to provide a resource that can fill in the gaps that
necessarily exist between reading about APIs and actually understanding
how to use jQuery effectively. We know a lot of people scour the web
each day for this type of information, and we hope the Learning Center
can serve as a dependable place for our users to turn. The Learning
Center will continue to evolve, but it would not be what it is today
without Rebecca Murphey's [jQuery
Fundamentals](http://jqfundamentals.com/legacy), which she donated to
the jQuery Foundation to form its original nucleus. (Thanks Rebecca!)
For this initial launch, we've worked to supplement this with
information about jQuery UI and jQuery Mobile, features that have been
added to jQuery in the interim, and other blog posts and articles from
other authors. We've also ported over most of what remained on
`docs.jquery.com`, as the Learning Center is indeed intended to be its
replacement: documentation that anyone can use -- and edit! There are
lots of folks in the jQuery community who like to share their knowledge
with others and spend a lot of time writing articles and giving advice,
hoping only that it helps someone else understand how to make a decision
or get out of a jam. The jQuery Learning Center is for you too. We hope
that it will empower those of you who already do this (and those who
haven't â€” yet) to reach the right audience: the people looking for it!
The Learning Center is the latest in the jQuery Foundation's series of
[open content
sites](http://blog.jquery.com/2013/01/23/a-site-to-behold-open-content-design-comes-to-jquery-2/),
so all of the articles are written in Markdown and the entire site is
[open source](http://github.com/jquery/learn.jquery.com). Whether you've
got a new article you'd like to get published or just notice a typo, the
Learning Center is certainly one area of jQuery that's open to all sorts
of new feature requests! You can find out more [about the jQuery
Learning Center](http://learn.jquery.com/about/), and if you're
interested in helping out, you should definitely take a look at our
[Contributing Guide](http://learn.jquery.com/contributing/). We'll
continually seek to flesh out the subject matter on the site, so whether
you've already got a great idea, an old StackOverflow answer that you
always thought "should be in the docs," or want to take a look at the
[existing issues](http://github.com/jquery/learn.jquery.com/issues) for
inspiration, there's sure to be something you can dig into! We hope the
new Learning Center will be a useful new reference for users and authors
alike, and welcome your feedback. You can get in touch with us by
[filing issues](http://github.com/jquery/learn.jquery.com/issues),
joining us in the
[\#jquery-content](irc://freenode.net:6667/#jquery-content) [IRC
channel](http://irc.jquery.org) on [freenode](http://freenode.net), or
send an e-mail to [content at jquery dot
com](mailto:content@jquery.com).
