The jQuery Team is pleased to announce the second annual jQuery Camp!
**jQuery Camp 2008** will be held on **Sunday, Sept. 28**, the day
before The Ajax Experience, in Boston, MA (location TBA). Last year,
over 100 jQuery developers gathered for a full day of jQuery sessions,
which included talks from such big names as jQuery creator John Resig
and other core team members, as well as talks from expert users
exploring new and exciting jQuery projects. It brought together the
largest group of jQuery Core Team members ever assembled, and gave users
the opportunity to pick their brains and pitch new ideas. The event was
a **\*clear\*** success, and this year's camp promises to be even
better. jQuery Camp 2008 will offer two tracks, providing both
introductory and advanced sessions, covering a variety of topics. Ajax
development, mashups, security and the recently released jQuery UI
component and effects library are just some of the topics already lined
up. jQuery Camp 2008 will charge a nominal fee of \$50 per person, which
will include lunch. Attendees need NOT be registered for The Ajax
Experience to attend. **Registration will open in July**; keep an eye on
jQuery.com for more details! For those attending The Ajax Experience,
show organizers have recently announced a half-day time slot for
additional jQuery sessions, on September 29th at the conference center.
The agenda is still up in the air, but we're thinking of offering a
"Dream Team Code Review" session, where users can have code reviewed by
members of the jQuery team. We're interested in your feedback; would you
attend this session? jQuery Camp 2008 is a truly fantastic opportunity
to learn from the jQuery team and socialize with top jQuery developers;
we're looking forward to meeting everyone! See you all in September.
