We have two pieces of fantastic, albeit serendipitous, news today: Both
Microsoft and Nokia are taking the major step of adopting jQuery as part
of their official application development platform. Not only will they
be using it for their corporate development but they will be providing
it as a core piece of their platform for developers to build with.
Microsoft is looking to make jQuery part of their official development
platform. Their JavaScript offering today includes the [ASP.NET Ajax
Framework](http://www.asp.net/ajax/) and they're looking to expand it
with the use of jQuery. This means that jQuery will be distributed with
Visual Studio (which will include jQuery intellisense, snippets,
examples, and documentation). Additionally Microsoft will be developing
additional controls, or widgets, to run on top of jQuery that will be
easily deployable within your .NET applications. jQuery helpers will
also be included in the server-side portion of .NET development (in
addition to the existing helpers) providing complementary functions to
existing ASP.NET AJAX capabilities. Nokia is looking to use jQuery to
develop applications for their WebKit-based [Web
Run-Time](http://www.s60.com/life/thisiss60/s60indetail/technologiesandfeatures/webruntime).
The run-time is a stripped-down browser rendering engine that allows for
easy, but powerful, application development. This means that jQuery will
be distributed on all Nokia phones that include the web run-time. To
start Nokia will be moving a number of their applications to work on the
run-time (such as Maps) and building them using jQuery. jQuery will
become part of their [widget development
platform](http://www.s60.com/life/thisiss60/s60indetail/technologiesandfeatures/webruntime/webruntimedetail),
meaning that any developer will be able to use jQuery in the
construction of widgets for Nokia phones. Microsoft and Nokia aren't
looking to make any modifications to jQuery (both in the form of code or
licensing) - they simply wish to promote its use as-is. They've
recognized its position as the most popular JavaScript library and wish
to see its growth and popularity continue to flourish. In fact their
developers will begin to help contribute back to the jQuery project by
proposing patches, submitting test cases, and providing comprehensive
testing against their runtimes. As with any contribution that comes in
to the jQuery project it'll be closely analyzed, reviewed, and accepted
or rejected, based upon its merits, by the jQuery development team - no
free ride will be given. A significant level of testing will be added to
the project in this respect. The jQuery test suite is already integrated
into the test suites of Mozilla and Opera and this move will see a
significant level of extra testing being done on Internet Explorer and
WebKit - above-and-beyond what is already done by the jQuery team. The
whole jQuery team is quite excited by these prospects and wishes to take
this opportunity to welcome both companies to the jQuery community. It's
phenomenal to see these two, major, corporations take the large step of
using jQuery as a base for their, and their developers, future
development. They will join a [long
list](http://docs.jquery.com/Sites_Using_jQuery) of happy jQuery users,
including Google, Intel, IBM, Intuit, Reuters, and many others.
**Update:** Blogs posts by [Scott
Guthrie](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/archive/2008/09/28/jquery-and-microsoft.aspx)
and [Scott
Hanselman](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/jQueryToShipWithASPNETMVCAndVisualStudio.aspx),
both at Microsoft, have posts on the subject matter from their
perspective.
