[![jQuery Conference Portland
logo](http://events.jquery.org/2013/portland/img/logo-light.png)](http://events.jquery.org/2013/portland/)

[jQuery Conference is back](http://events.jquery.org/2013/portland/) and
better than ever! We're excited to invite you to the City of
Roses—**Portland, Oregon** on **June 13 and 14, 2013** at the [Oregon
Convention Center](http://oregoncc.org/). We've got more room (and lead
time) than ever before, so if you haven't been able to make it to a
jQuery Conference in the past, this is your best opportunity yet! We're
returning to our traditional two-track lineup, which means there'll be
lots to learn and even more chances to speak. [Early-bird registration
is open right now](http://events.jquery.org/2013/portland/#tickets), but
we only have a limited number of slots, so you definitely want to act
fast.

Call For Papers
---------------

A conference is nothing without a great lineup of speakers sharing their
experience, knowledge, and tools with the community. Whether you're a
regular on the conference circuit or you've always *considered* speaking
but haven't yet, we're eager to hear from you. Our [Call for
Papers](http://events.jquery.org/2013/portland/#callforpapers) will be
open from now through March 2nd, which gives you a month and a half (at
most) to prepare your proposal. We're also continuing our "inverted"
proposal process, so if there's someone you really want to hear from,
let us know.

Training Day
------------

If you're looking for a bit more than the regular conference experience,
perhaps a more focused opportunity to grow as a developer, we've
partnered with [Bocoup](http://bocoup.com/) to host a two-track
[training day](http://events.jquery.org/2013/portland/#training) the day
before the conference  (June 12). With both *Front End Fundamentals* and
*Advanced jQuery* courses available, it's a great way to make the most
of your trip.

Sponsors
--------

Sponsoring a jQuery Conference is a great way to build your company
profile in the jQuery community; your best opportunity to meet (and
hopefully hire) top jQuery developers, evangelize your products, and
help support the jQuery Foundation. We're still looking for partners to
work with us on the largest jQuery event yet, so take a look at our
[prospectus](http://events.jquery.org/2013/portland/jQueryConferencePortlandProspectus01-25.pdf)
and [get in touch](mailto:events@jquery.org) to get the ball rolling.
That's it for now; stay tuned to the blog and
[@jqcon](http://twitter.com/jqcon) for announcements about speakers,
parties and all other manner of conference goodness. We'll see you
there!
