The second release candidate for jQuery UI 1.8 is out and ready for
testing. You can download it here:

### Download

#### [File Downloads](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/downloads/list)

-   Development Bundle:
    [http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.8rc2.zip](http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/files/jquery-ui-1.8rc2.zip)

#### [Svn](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/source/checkout)

-   svn checkout http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/svn/tags/1.8rc2/
-   Browse source code:
    [http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/source/browse/\#svn/tags/1.8rc2](http://code.google.com/p/jquery-ui/source/browse/#svn/tags/1.8rc2)

### Changelog

See the [1.8rc2 Changelog](http://jqueryui.com/docs/Changelog/1.8rc2)
for what's been fixed since 1.8rc1. For a list of all issues fixed since
1.7.2, see [previous 1.8
changelogs](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Changelog).

### Upgrade Guide

A full [Upgrade Guide](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Upgrade_Guide_18) for
easing the transition between 1.7 and 1.8 is in the works. This will be
ready in time for the final release. In the meantime, one of the more
significant (and breaking) changes in 1.8 already documented there is a
refactor of the widget factory. This means anyone that has built their
own plugin that uses the widget factory will need to make a number of
changes for compatibility with 1.8. For a view of these changes, see
[the widget factory section of the Upgrade
Guide](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Upgrade_Guide_18#Widget_Factory). Also,
see this [sample implementation of a simple
widget](http://github.com/scottgonzalez/jquery-ui-1.8-widget-factory)
with both the 1.7 and 1.8 widget factories, and the differences, by
Scott Gonz√°lez.

### Plan for 1.8 final

We hope to release jQuery UI 1.8 final after a couple days, assuming
there aren't any blocking issues present in this release candidate.

### Thanks

A big thanks to all that have worked on all the bug fixes and other
improvements that have gone into this release. We'll have a proper
listing of all contributors in the final release announcement.

### How to report issues

**If you find any issues in this release, please do not put them in
comments on this post, but instead head over to the [Developing jQuery
UI Forum](http://forum.jquery.com/developing-jquery-ui). Thank you.**
