![](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/jquerycomm.jpg "JQuery")

**Updates From jQuery Core** I've got some good news today about the
next version of jQuery: jQuery 1.4.4. On the heels of the 1.4.3 release,
which included many fixes (and of course the introduction of jQuery
Mobile), we felt it would be of most benefit to the community if we were
to make a maintenance release soon after, aimed to further improve the
stability of the jQuery core. For 1.4.4, we've identified those bugs
that were most critical for us to fix and thanks to John Resig and the
bug triage team, we've already fixed the majority of these issues. We
currently intend on releasing 1.4.4 in early November, assuming no
further major bugs are targeted for this release. Today, we would like
to ask the community to assist us in ensuring this new release is as
stable as possible through stress-testing it. While we already run a
comprehensive suite of automated unit tests on jQuery, adding real-world
user testing into our project flow allows us the opportunity to fix
critical bugs sooner and will assist in 1.4.4 being a significant
improvement over the last release. If you would like to test 1.4.4, you
can download an up-to-the-minute version of it (dubbed jQuery Git) here:
[http://code.jquery.com/jquery-git.js](http://code.jquery.com/jquery-git.js)
Please bear in mind that this version is not yet ready for production
systems and is only made available for evaluation and testing. It is
also now available on [jsFiddle.net](http://jsfiddle.net) under the
entry 'jQuery 0 Git'. We appreciate the community's assistance in
helping us make this release as stable as possible and welcome any
feedback you may have on it. If you notice a bug in this release and
would like to report it, please see the
[guidelines](http://docs.jquery.com/How_to_Report_Bugs) on bug
submission. **Updates From the jQuery UI Team** The developers from the
[jQuery UI](http://jqueryui.com) team stayed in Boston for three days
after the conference and were able to fix quite a few bugs and do some
face-to-face planning on the future of jQuery UI. jQuery UI 1.8.6 is
nearing a release date very soon, so keep an eye on the [jQuery UI
blog](http://blog.jquery.com) for it. Additionally, the jQuery UI team
is working with Colin Snover to migrate jQuery UI's ticket system over
to a new system like jQuery Core just received. We are really excited
about having a more stable and collaborative ticket tracking system and
would love more contributions from the community helping in ticket
triage. If you are interested in contributing, please talk to a [jQuery
Developer Relations team member](http://jquery.org/team). The [Official
jQuery Podcast](http://podcast.jquery.com) with Ralph Whitbeck and Rey
Bango released their [37th
episode](http://podcast.jquery.com/2010/10/22/ben-nadel/) last week.
Their guest this week was Ben Nadel and they discussed jQuery in the
ColdFusion community as well as talk about the jQuery Conference that
took place in Boston last weekend. This week they'll be interviewing
John Resig about jQuery 1.4.3 and jQuery Mobile. If you have any
questions you would like answered please send your question via the
[contact form](http://podcast.jquery.com/contact-us). Don't forget about
our [forums](http://forum.jquery.com). We have a vibrant community
asking and answering questions. We would love more people contributing
by helping others out in answering questions. It's a great way to get
involved in the project; being able to give your knowledge back to
others is very rewarding.
