The jQuery UI Team is pleased to announce its second Worldwide sprint,
to take place this Friday April 17th and Saturday 18th, 2009. Two full
days of testing, fixes, documentation, and general getting-stuff-done.
Our goal is ready the 1.7.2 release, so we can start focusing on 1.8 and
beyond, and we invite any and all to help. Whether you have an hour, or
an afternoon, come and run really fast with us.

How Will It Work?
-----------------

We’ll all gather in IRC (\#jqueryui-sprint on
[freenode](http://freenode.net/)) throughout the two-day sprint, with a
couple of scheduled meetings to keep everyone on the same page, and make
sure things keep moving. Other than that we’ll just be doing as much as
we can, as fast as we can. Opening tickets, closing tickets, breaking
stuff, fixing other things, and everyone’s favorite pastime:
[documentation (and demos)](http://jqueryui.com/demos/). Take a look at
[last year's sprint page](http://docs.jquery.com/JQuerySprint) to see
what we accomplished.

I’m New Here. Can I Help?
-------------------------

Absolutely. If you’ve thought about contributing to jQuery or jQuery UI
before, but never really found the right moment or momentum, this sprint
is the perfect time to get involved. A number of members of the [jQuery
UI Team](http://jqueryui.com/about) will be around to help people get
started, especially if it’s your first time. We’ll help you help us, in
whatever way you want. That could be testing, documentation, ticket
triage, bug fixes, writing demos, contributing to the [planning
wiki](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/)or even just playing with new stuff as
we churn it out, and providing valuable feedback.

More Details
------------

We’ve created a [wiki page](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/Worldwide-Sprint-2)
to help coordinate this big event. It has some more details on what is
planned, how to jump in, and will be updated throughout the sprint to
show status and next steps.

Tell us you're coming!
----------------------

We invite you to add your name to the [wiki
page](http://wiki.jqueryui.com/Worldwide-Sprint-2) as a participant, if
you’re interested, even if you have only a few hours (or aren’t sure how
much time you’ll have). Also, feel free to specify what you’re willing
and/or able to do. Thanks!
