[jQuery UI](http://ui.jquery.com/) is growing, and I'm already seeing
quite a few sites using it exclusively to support their interface. As a
matter of fact, it's growing so well, that a **LA-based open-source
company decided to hire a person to exclusively work on jQuery UI
full-time**. I'm very happy to announce that I, Paul Bakaus, lead of
jQuery UI, was hired by [Liferay Inc](http://liferay.com)., the company
behind the world's most popular open source java portal, to focus solely
on bringing jQuery UI to a next level. This has an **enormous effect to
the whole project** - I can now invest almost three times the amount of
time and power, and I'm helping to deploy jQuery and jQuery UI in
mission critical projects, which makes a huge difference. Liferay's
plans are to **standardize all their products to use jQuery** and its
plugins for the future (you'll still be able to use other libraries at
the same time) - it's therefore in their very interest to see jQuery UI
enjoying a long life, growing to meet expectations of all kinds of
clients and beyond. To reach this goal, hiring me was the most logical
decision: I now have no excuse not-to-focus on jQuery UI for a while -
after all, it's my day job! But the cooperation with Liferay is even
more than that: Liferay will be **the first company starting from today
to offer business critical support services** for both jQuery and jQuery
UI. Not only we'll have a open source company backing us, but it's the
best publicity a project can have: **jQuery UI will run in huge
intranets, on every copy of Liferay**. This will have a strong effect on
both the distribution of the project and the level of quality that is
being provided. I myself am extremely excited about the change - there
are countless positive side effects and products coming up - new
products featuring jQuery, sponsored themes for UI, a new website, and
of course - **a new version of jQuery UI** (the release date of the new,
polished version with all the long-awaited bugfixes will be announced in
the next couple of days).
