[![](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/4555632938_6cd72e1214_m.jpg "jQuery Conference 2011")](http://www.flickr.com/photos/chriscoyier/4555632938/in/pool-1370217@N25/)The
jQuery Project is very excited to announce the dates for our next [San
Francisco Bay Area conference;](http://events.jquery.org) after a
fantastic event in 2010, we'll be returning to the [Microsoft Silicon
Valley Research
Center](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/labs/siliconvalley/) in
Mountain View, California on April 16th and 17th, 2011. The San
Francisco Bay Area conference is the first of two events planned by the
jQuery Project in 2011. We're also in the early stages of planning an
event for the East Coast for later this year (we'll post details as they
become available). [Registration is now
open](http://events.jquery.org/2011/sf-bay-area/register/)! Regularly
priced tickets are \$299, and for a limited time, there are early-bird
tickets available at a \$50 discount (early-bird tickets available until
March 2nd, or while supplies last). For more details on the what, when
and who, head over to the [events
site](http://events.jquery.org/2011/sf-bay-area/register/). In addition
to two days of jQuery sessions, weâ€™ll once again be offering a day of
jQuery training, on the Friday before the conference. In response to
popular demand last year, we'll be offering two training tracks --
Beginner jQuery and Advanced. The training is generoursly offered by our
friends at [JupiterIT](http://jupiterjs.com/) and
[Bocoup](http://bocoup.com/), and all proceeds go directly to funding
the future growth of the jQuery project. Keep an eye on this blog and
the events site for specific training agendas, coming soon. **Want to
contribute?** Interested in speaking? We're still filling out the
roster, and we'd love to have you! [Our Call for Papers is live
here](http://events.jquery.org/2011/sf-bay-area/speakers/), and
submissions are already starting to roll in. Keep an eye on the jQuery
Blog for agenda updates as we fill the slots. Lastly, if you or your
company would like to help out by sponsoring the event, send an email to
[sponsorship@jquery.com](mailto:sponsorship@jquery.com). Every little
bit helps, and we'd love to work with you and your team! That's it for
now folks -- looking forward to seeing you all in sunny California!
