We've just pushed out a brand new site redesign (for jQuery.com and all
its sub-sites). This has been a long time coming and it feels great to
get it out the door.

#### New Homepage

[![jQuery.com](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/08/jquerycom.sm.png)](http://jquery.com/)

Easily the most contentious part of the redesign - but absolutely the
most eye-catching. jQuery has long been driven by rock, even looking
back to its [original
release](http://web.archive.org/web/20060203025710/http://jquery.com/)
which was heavily inspired by the always-excellent
[Devo](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Devo). We shot for a catchy design
that helped to bring JavaScript out of the cold doldrums that it
frequently inhabits - giving it a serious jolt of fun.

#### New Site Layout

[![jQuery
Docs](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/08/jquerydocs.sm.png)](http://docs.jquery.com/Traversing)

The entirety of the site has a new layout. With drastically improved
multi-layer navigation and a standardized sidebar it should become much
easier to navigate the individual portions of the site. You should
probably wear a hard hat while exploring the interior pages - font
sizes, spacing, and colors are all in need of tweaking, which will be
handled over the upcoming week (it's fun working against Trac,
Wordpress, Drupal, and Mediawiki simultaneously).

#### New Logo

![jQuery
Logo](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/08/jquerylogo.png)

The original jQuery logo was a variation of the Devo hat - we've taken
that concept, turned it on its ear, and made it something that we can
call our own - while still being inspired by the original contours of
the [Devo Energy Dome](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energy_Dome).

#### Thanks

Site and Logo Design: [Scott Jehl](http://scottjehl.com/) - he put a
fantastic amount of work into this redesign, bringing it all the way
from conception to final implementation. Rockin' Illustration: Varick
Rosete from [nGenWorks](http://www.ngenworks.com/) also of [Happy
Webbies](http://www.happywebbies.com) fame. Initial Logo Prototyping:
[Bradley Sepos](http://bradleysepos.com/blog/). Also want to thank
[Media Temple](http://mediatemple.net/) for our hosting. They've been
helping us a lot this past week migrating our sites to some new servers
- expect some speed improvements for the sub-domains very soon.
