We are very happy to announce the dates and venue for the [2011 Boston
jQuery Conference](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/). We will hold
our annual Boston Conference on October 1â€”2, 2011, at the Royal Sonesta
Hotel in Cambridge, MA. **Call for Speakers** We are officially opening
a [call for speakers](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/speakers/).
If you would like to speak at the conference on topics such as jQuery,
JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, or general front-end development, please
[submit your talk
proposal](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/speakers/) to us by
**July 15th**. Speakers will be notified, confirmed, and announced
within a week after the deadline. **Registration** We will be opening
registration soon. You can fill out the [form on the events home
page](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/) and be notified the instant
tickets are available. **Hotel** We have worked with the [Royal Sonesta
Hotel](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/hotel/) and have a huge
block of rooms reserved for the conference. The Royal Sonesta is
providing a discounted room rate of \$273.53/night (includes tax). If
you make your reservation over the phone, please let them know that you
are staying for the jQuery Conference to get the discount. You can also
[reserve your room online](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/hotel/).
Please use the coded website link on the [hotel page of the event
site](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/hotel/) to ensure you get the
discounted rate. **More information** If you or your company are
interested in sponsoring this event, please [contact
us](mailto:sponsorship@jquery.com) to find out more information. We're
aware that, unfortunately, this year's Boston conference overlaps
JSConf.eu. We considered a number of dates, but had to settle on the 1st
and 2nd. We are truly sorry if this presents a conflict for you and hope
you can enjoy a weekend of JavaScript on either side of the Atlantic.
