This week Jonathan Chaffer and I finished the book's first draft and
sent the last chapter to the publisher, so I thought I'd take this
opportunity before the revisions start rolling in to provide some more
details. The book's full title is [Learning jQuery: Better Interaction
Design and Web Development with Simple JavaScript
Techniques](http://www.packtpub.com/jQuery/book/mid/100407j4kh3d).
[![Learning jQuery
book](http://www.learningjquery.com/images/book-cover.jpg)](http://www.packtpub.com/jQuery/book/mid/100407j4kh3d)As
the subtitle suggests, we've written the book to be accessible to those
with a web-design background who haven't had much, if any experience,
with coding. But we think it will provide plenty of useful information
for intermediate-level scripters as well. The book is being published by
[PACKT Publishing](http://www.PacktPub.com/), based in ~~Manchester~~
Birmingham, UK. They're a relative newcomer to the publishing world, but
already they've managed to put together a pretty impressive group of
books, many of which explore open-source software projects. They seem
passionate about supporting these projects beyond publishing books about
them. In fact, they've introduced a royalty scheme that gives a
percentage of sales to the open-source project that a book is written
about. So, if you buy this book, you'll be directly supporting the
jQuery project. :) The expected publication date is sometime this July,
and the book is already [available for
pre-order](http://www.packtpub.com/jQuery/book/mid/100407j4kh3d) at a
20% discount. The publisher plans to sell a PDF-version of the book,
too, but they haven't set it up for pre-order just yet. Barring the
unlikely major structural change during our revision phase, the
(concise) table of contents should look like something like this:

1.  Introducing jQuery
    1.  Getting Started

2.  Exploring jQuery
    1.  Selectors, or How to Get Anything You Want
    2.  Events, or How to Pull the Trigger
    3.  Effects, or How to Add Flair to Your Actions
    4.  DOM Manipulation, or How to Change Your Page on Command
    5.  AJAX, or How to Make Your Site Buzzword Compliant

3.  Using jQuery
    1.  Table Manipulation
    2.  Forms with Function
    3.  Shufflers and Rotators

4.  Examining jQuery
    1.  Selector Expressions
    2.  DOM Traversal Methods
    3.  DOM Manipulation Methods
    4.  Event Methods
    5.  Effect Methods
    6.  AJAX Methods
    7.  Miscellaneous Methods
    8.  Plug-ins

5.  Appendices
    1.  Online Resources
    2.  Development Tools
    3.  JavaScript Closures

#### Update:

We're making good progress on the revisions, and it looks like we're
going to hit our target publication date of July. The publisher has just
made the PDF version of the book [available for
pre-order](http://packtpub.com/jquery/book) at a 15% discount. Also,
they have a "Book and eBook Bundle" at an enormously discounted price
(US \$36.79).
