The jQuery Project is excited to announce that Microsoft is expanding
its support of the jQuery JavaScript Library through new initiatives, to
include code contributions, product integration, and the allocation of
additional resources. Building on two years of collaboration with the
jQuery Project, Microsoft announced today at MIX 2010 that it will be
working with the jQuery Core Team and community to provide source code
that will help to further advance the jQuery JavaScript Library. The
planned contributions target specific functionalities in areas of mutual
interest. They include:

-   Templating
-   Script Loading
-   Data Binding

The initial focus will be on a new templating engine that will allow for
easy and flexible data rendering via defined templates. Microsoft has
submitted a[proposal for public
review](http://forum.jquery.com/topic/jquery-templates-proposal) along
with an[experimental plugin](http://github.com/nje/jquery-tmpl), and is
actively collaborating with the jQuery team and community on a unified
implementation. The templating engine will be reviewed and considered
for inclusion into the jQuery JavaScript Library or maintained as an
official jQuery plugin. Microsoft will also ship a current release of
the jQuery JavaScript Library in both Visual Studio 2010
andÂ [ASP.NET](http://ASP.NET/) MVC as well as continue to host current
versions of the library on the Microsoft CDN. Lastly, Microsoft will be
providing resources to assist in QA testing of jQuery in new
environments to ensure continued stability and longevity of the library.
We see these contributions as a tremendous benefit to the jQuery effort
and community and look forward to continued collaboration with
Microsoft.
