The [jQuery team](http://docs.jquery.com/About/Contributors) would like
to welcome our newest team members, **[Yehuda
Katz](http://yehudakatz.com/)**, **[Nate
Cavanaugh](http://alterform.com/)**, & **[Klaus
Hartl](http://stilbuero.de/)**. These three developers have made
invaluable contributions to the jQuery projects in terms of time,
knowledge and commitment to the community.
**[Yehuda](http://yehudakatz.com/)** is a developer living in New York
City who maintains the web site Visual jQuery, and publishes the Visual
jQuery Magazine. Additionally, he's a frequent contributor to the jQuery
Blog and promoter of good practices within the jQuery core. As a member
of the evangelism team he's working to help people discover jQuery;
actively trying to find and promote jQuery to new users.
**[Nate](http://alterform.com/)** is a designer living in California. He
was responsible for the recent redesign of the jQuery site. He's going
to be helping to design new portions of the site, and help to bring
outdated portions of the site inline with the rest. He's also working to
take a critical look at how using jQuery, as a design tool, can help to
promote Unobtrusive design principals. **[Klaus](http://stilbuero.de/)**
has been one of the most vocal supporter of jQuery and unobtrusive
design on the jQuery mailing list. His ability to expertly explain
quality, unobtrusive, solutions to problems is invaluable will be a
tremendous boon to the jQuery project. Klaus will be working with both
the Evangelism & Dev teams, to help promote jQuery and expand its reach
as well as maintaining Thickbox and the Tabs plugin. He will also be
spearheading the effort to make Tabs an official plugin. We're very
pleased to be working with all of you and welcome you to the [jQuery
team](http://docs.jquery.com/About/Contributors).
