[![](http://blog.jqueryui.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/07/scott.jpg "Scott González")](http://nemikor.com)Like
most open source projects, jQuery UI is maintained by a team of
developers volunteering their spare time to the project. While we've
been [very productive at times](http://dev.jqueryui.com/ticket/3942),
occasionally the team gets busy and productivity slows, sometimes almost
to a halt. With new plugins to design and build, old plugins to
maintain, and a growing community to support, the need for a more stable
development pace has become increasingly more important. Today we're
happy to announce that you can expect greatly increased productivity
starting immediately. [Scott González](http://nemikor.com), the lead
developer for jQuery UI, has accepted a position at
[appendTo](http://appendto.com), a worldwide provider of consulting,
training and support for jQuery and jQuery UI. Earlier this month, Scott
started his new job where he will be spending half of his time working
on jQuery UI under a 1,000 hour contract between appendTo and the jQuery
Project. It's important to mention that what Scott works on will be
determined solely by the jQuery UI team, not by appendTo or appendTo's
clients. So what has Scott been working on? He's currently going through
[every open ticket in the bug tracker](http://dev.jqueryui.com/report/1)
(which was up to 800 at the beginning of the month). So far he's made
his way through the tickets for accordion and autocomplete. Combined,
these two plugins had 83 open tickets when he started this triage. Now
accordion has 8 open tickets (three of which are feature requests) and
autocomplete has no remaining tickets. Scott has also made a lot of
progress working through the fork queue on GitHub. Having dedicated time
to work on jQuery UI has additional benefits as well. By increasing
Scott's availability, other members of the team can be more productive
with their volunteered time. Scott is also able to review pull requests
and answer questions on the [Developing jQuery UI
forum](http://forum.jquery.com/developing-jquery-ui) in a much more
reasonable timeframe. This is something that we've struggled with for a
long time. Stay tuned for more updates.
