Hey everyone!
[![](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/jQCon-Image-300x125.png "jQCon Image")](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/register/)
We recently announced the dates for our next jQuery Conference—[October
1st and 2nd in Boston, MA](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/)—and
we're finally ready to [open
registration](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/register/)! Here are
some top level bullet points for you:

-   2 days of jam-packed content from the jQuery Core Team and top
    community members, covering everything from jQuery basics and
    advanced techniques, to jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile, and more
-   A new limited-run jQuery tshirt and other jQuery swag
-   A fabulous Boston after party, hosted by our friends over at
    [MediaTemple](http://mediatemple.net/) with free booze, snacks,
    great company and more
-   Other sweet after-hours events, announcements coming soon

Back by popular demand, we've also got [a full day of Beginner jQuery
Training](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/training/) for the new
folks on your team, generously provided by our friends over at
[Bocoup](http://bocoup.com/). We'll likely be adding additional topical
and/or advanced training sessions, so keep an eye here and on Twitter
for announcements and updates on that. New for this year: For the first
time ever, we've *really*got [an official jQuery Conference
Hotel](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/hotel/). We've had suggested
multiple hotels in the past, but this year we've secured a fantastic
block *at the conference venue*, arranged for the Core Team and speakers
to stay there, and have also thrown in some hotel-guest-only perks, like
priority registration and swag distribution. We'll also be organizing
some on-site evening gatherings at the hotel, and hotel guests will
receive priority registration for any of those as well. The room block
we secured last year—which *didn't* have these extra perks—sold out well
before the conference, so make sure you book your room ASAP, and make
sure it's part of our specific room block. The [Call for
Papers](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/speakers/) is still open,
so if you haven't submitted your talk yet, definitely get on
that.  Speakers receive access to a fantastic speaker thank you dinner,
free accommodations at the conference hotel, and if budget allows it,
additional TBD renumeration. That's it for now; we'll have more
announcements soon as we roll out the speaking roster, announce more
party details and finalize all the other conference-related goodness.
[Register Now](http://events.jquery.org/2011/boston/register/)!
[](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/jQCon-Image.png)
