My fellow web developers, the state of jQuery is strong. On January 14,
2006, John Resig attended BarCampNYC and made a
[presentation](http://ejohn.org/blog/barcampnyc-wrap-up/) about his new
project called jQuery. In a contemporary blog post John said, "This code
revolutionizes the way you can get JavaScript to interact with HTML." It
was a bold statement, but in retrospect we know it was an
understatement. Seven years after John introduced jQuery to the world,
the JavaScript library he created has continued to evolve. Today, jQuery
is used by [more than half of the top 100,000
sites](http://trends.builtwith.com/javascript/jQuery) and is the [most
popular JavaScript library by
far](http://w3techs.com/technologies/history_overview/javascript_library/all/q).
Last year, jQuery projects
[moved](http://blog.jquery.com/2012/03/06/announcing-the-jquery-foundation/)
from under the wing of the Software Freedom Conservancy to our own
non-profit organization: *The jQuery Foundation*. This new Foundation
was created not just to foster jQuery code projects, but to advocate for
the needs of web developers everywhere. We're starting to see the fruits
of that labor. To serve the evolving needs of web developers, jQuery has
grown far beyond the core library. jQuery UI provides a rich set of user
interface widgets that share a consistent and common set of events,
programming conventions, and visual styles. jQuery Mobile offers a
framework designed to simplify web site and HTML app development on
mobile devices. Additional jQuery Foundation projects such as Sizzle,
QUnit, and TestSwarm provide valuable components and tools for web
development.

Anniversary Announcements
-------------------------

During the coming two weeks you'll hear more about each of these jQuery
Foundation initiatives: **jQuery 1.9 final:** This latest version of
jQuery core provides support for a full spectrum of browsers, from IE6
all the way to the most recent releases of every major browser. **jQuery
2.0 beta:** Here is your taste of the future, a jQuery that can be
faster and smaller without the need to support IE 6, 7, or 8. It's a
great choice for platform-specific HTML applications. **jQuery Migrate
1.0 final:** Use this plugin to find things that may cause upgrade
issues when you move up from older jQuery versions, and to allow older
code to work with either jQuery 1.9 or 2.0. **jQuery UI 1.10 final:**
This version of jQuery UI includes API redesigns for both the Dialog and
Progressbar components, in addition to a healthy set of fixes to other
components. **New and remodeled web sites:** All jQuery sites are being
updated with a new look, and we're encouraging contributions via Github.
The most exciting news of all? *The Plugin site returns!*
**Conferences:** Our next conference is being held in Portland Oregon on
June 12-14, so save the date! Ticket sales and a call for speakers will
open on January 25th at noon Eastern time. Details of future conferences
are coming soon; they include Austin Texas in September 2013, San Diego
California in February 2014, and Chicago Illinois in July 2014.
**Membership:** Our new program lets you or your company show support by
donating to the jQuery Foundation; you'll get benefits such as t-shirts,
hoodies, and discounts on conference tickets.

jQuery's Mission
----------------

With the impending arrival of jQuery 2.0 some people have been asking,
"If jQuery doesn't have to worry about IE 6, 7 or 8 anymore, where does
it go now? Aren't cross-browser issues the whole reason for jQuery's
existence?" First of all, let's be very clear: The jQuery team *does*
"worry about" IE 6/7/8, with jQuery 1.9. We've created a legacy-free
jQuery 2.0 in order to address the many situations where older versions
of IE aren't needed. Some glorious day in the future, jQuery 2.0 will be
the only version you'll need; until then we'll continue to maintain
jQuery 1.9. Second, jQuery wasn't *just* created to iron out browser
differences. It introduced a concise, powerful, and expressive API for
managing HTML documents that is far better than the original W3C DOM
APIs. Using the jQuery API, developers have created reusable jQuery
plugins that make the process of building a web site or HTML application
much easier. jQuery is a great choice even for an iPhone HTML app that
will never see a different web platform. But to the point about
cross-browser issues, it's a complete myth that today's modern browsers
have no differences. Look through the jQuery source code and you'll see
plenty of places where it has to fix, patch, and mask issues in modern
browsers; those problems didn't end with IE8. jQuery 2.0 now has more
patches and shims for Chrome, Safari, and Firefox than for Internet
Explorer! In fixing and patching these differences, we often act as an
advocate for web developers to the browser makers and standards
organizations. We want jQuery APIs to be consistent and return useful
results, even when browser bugs or ill-conceived standards dictate
otherwise. It's not always easy to do that. Sometimes, doing the right
thing requires changes to the standards, or new standards altogether.
For some examples of that, see the work Mike Sherov has done to [fix
getComputedStyle()](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=29084), or
the efforts of Mat Marquis and others to create a [responsive image
tag](http://www.alistapart.com/articles/responsive-images-and-web-standards-at-the-turning-point/).
Team members Yehuda Katz and Rick Waldron are participating in the W3C
and ECMA standards groups that define the technologies we all use.

Let's Work Together
-------------------

All of these benefits to the web development community are delivered by
a dedicated group of [jQuery team members](http://jquery.org/team/).
We're proud to have developers like these working on behalf of the
jQuery Foundation to advocate for the needs of the community. The
majority of the team volunteers their time, or has their time subsidized
through the generous donation of their employer. But there is always
more work to do than the team can possibly tackle. Here are ways you can
help: **Join the jQuery Foundation.** As a member, you'll get an awesome
annual membership gift such as a t-shirt, hoodie, or bag, depending on
your level of contribution. Your cash donations can help to keep our
operations going. We'll be announcing a memebership program in a few
days as part of our anniversary celebration. **Test beta versions of
jQuery projects as soon as they arrive.** We want to find and fix
problems before the final release. Beta versions are announced on the
jQuery blogs, and bug reporting procedures are given in the blog posts
as well. Read through the documentation and let us know when information
is incorrect or missing. As [Linus'
Law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus'_Law) says, "Given enough
eyeballs, all bugs are shallow." **Write code, documentation, or web
sites for a jQuery project.** It's not just the libraries themselves
that need volunteers. The jQuery Foundation has many, many web sites at
this point, and those sites always need contributions of code,
documentation, or design. Watch for a blog post soon about a new site
for contributors. **Get your company involved.** If your company
encourages employees to do open source work, consider doing that work on
jQuery Foundation projects. Companies that wish to provide services
and/or financial support can become corporate members of the jQuery
Foundation. **Share your knowledge with the jQuery community.** Join the
discussion on our [jQuery forum](http://forum.jquery.com), on [Stack
Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/jquery), at
user-group gatherings and conferences, or anywhere else you find jQuery
being the hot topic.

Thank You!
----------

As you can tell, the jQuery Foundation was very busy in 2012, and we're
determined to continue that pace in 2013. We couldn't have made such
incredible progress without support from members and sponsors. jQuery
Foundation member companies include WordPress, Media Temple, Adobe, RIM,
Apigee, Intel, Gentics, BNOTIONS, White October, Bitovi, Davinci,
Application Craft, GitHub, Go Daddy and MJG International. Significant
support has also been provided by Bocoup, Filament Group, and their
staff. jQuery's success isn't ours alone; the web development community
around the world deserves much of the credit. The breadth and scope of
the jQuery ecosystem shows that it is thriving, and it continues to grow
thanks to your support. Let's make 2013 another great year for web
developers! Dave Methvin President, jQuery Foundation
