Today, we’d like to announce that we’ve moved the Official jQuery
Podcast off the jQuery blog and onto it’s own site at
[http://podcast.jquery.com](http://podcast.jquery.com).

[![](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/podcastsitess.png)](http://podcast.jquery.com)

We felt that with a weekly blog post for each episodes show notes the
podcast was taking over the blog.  Some of the community members thought
the same way.  We’ve been working on porting over the existing posts and
making the new podcast site easier to use for our listeners. Each
episodes show-notes are now streamlined to give you a quick introduction
about what the show is about followed by all the links that were
mentioned in the show.  We also have the ability to play the show from
the post with an embedded player as well as easy links to download and
[subscribe.](http://feeds.feedburner.com/jQueryPodcastShowNotes) We also
have a easy [contact form](http://podcast.jquery.com/contact-us/) that
will allow you to contact the podcast directly. We’ve cleaned up the
jQuery blog and removed the old show notes and put in place URL
redirects so old urls will still go to the right post on the new site.
While we are talking about the blog, we’d like to know what would you
like to see more of on the jQuery blog?  Currently we’ve been using the
blog to post news about the project and upcoming events.  What else can
we post to help you out?  We’d love to hear your ideas. Special thanks
goes out to Doug Neiner for helping out with design and coding, also,
would like to thank Jonathan Sharp for setting up the site and getting
the URL redirects in place. Let us know what you think of the new
podcast site and don’t forget to keep listening to the show.
