In addition to jQuery's great [Mailing List](http://jquery.com/discuss/)
and [Documentation](http://docs.jquery.com/Main_Page), there's another
place where users can seek help about jQuery problems: **We have a very
active jQuery IRC channel.** Even though it's never really been publicly
announced, the channel currently averages over 50 simultaneous users,
including some friendly jQuery bots! Hosted on irc.freenode.net,
\#jquery always has users who are online and willing to answer your
questions (of which, they are often answered within minutes of their
being asked). Here's the information that you will need in order to
[connect to the channel](irc://irc.freenode.net/jquery): **Server:**
irc.freenode.net **Room:** \#jquery [jQuery team
members](http://docs.jquery.com/Contributors), especially [John
Resig](http://ejohn.org/) (nick: JohnResig), [Joern
Zaefferer](http://bassistance.de/) (nick: JoernZaefferer), and [Yehuda
Katz](http://yehudakatz.com/) (nick: wycats) are frequently in
attendance, helping experienced and new users alike with both complex
and trivial problems. The IRC Channel is best if you need quick help
with any of the following:

-   JavaScript
-   jQuery Syntax
-   Problem Solving
-   Strange bugs

\
 If your problem is more in-depth, we may ask you to post to the
[mailing list](http://jquery.com/discuss/), or the [bug
tracker](http://jquery.com/dev/bugs/), so that we can help you in a
more-suitable environment. Additionally, we recently started logging the
channel, so you can now look back through to find answers to your old
problems: [jQuery IRC channel Log](http://jquery.com/discuss/irc/)
