jQuery UI sponsor Filament Group is holding an awesome contest: "To
celebrate ThemeRoller's [selection as a
finalist](http://sxsw.com/interactive/web_awards/finalists) for the SXSW
Web Award for Technical Achievement, we're holding a contest to give
away one free pass to the [SXSW Interactive
Festival](http://sxsw.com/interactive) to the person who creates the
coolest use of the new jQuery UI CSS framework."

### Check out the contest post here: [Contest: Win a Free Pass to SXSW Interactive for the Coolest Use of the jQuery UI CSS Framework](http://www.filamentgroup.com/lab/contest_for_coolest_use_of_the_jquery_css_framework_win_a_free_pass_to_sxsw/)

Quoting Filament:
-----------------

![SXSW badge](http://filamentgroup.com/images/sxsw2009ia.gif)

We're really excited about the new [jQuery UI CSS
framework](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Theming/API) because it makes it
easy to theme UI widgets or even entire layouts with the [jQuery UI
ThemeRoller](http://ThemeRoller.com "jQuery UI ThemeRoller") web
application. To celebrate the nomination and encourage everyone to take
advantage of this new framework, we're holding a contest to see who can
demonstrate the most creative use of the framework's capabilities. The
winner will receive a free pass to the [SXSW Interactive
Festival](http://sxsw.com/interactive) in Austin, Texas, March 13-17,
2009.

### How to get started

First off, download a theme and demo page from [jQuery UI
ThemeRoller](http://themeroller.com/ "jQuery UI ThemeRoller") and review
the [jQuery UI CSS framework
documentation](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Theming/API) to get an idea of
how the framework is used. Then head over to the jQuery UI site and grab
the handy [Firefox ThemeRoller
bookmarklet](http://www.filamentgroup.com/lab/introducing_the_themeroller_firefox_developer_bookmarklet/)
to help you test your styles as you build your project. If you're
creating a demo page, we strongly suggest that you include the [Theme
switcher dropdown](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Theming/ThemeSwitcher) to
let people quickly sample ThemeRoller themes on your page and really
show off the theming in action. Remember, the CSS framework is not just
for jQuery plugins â€” framework styles can be used with *any Javascript
library or your own custom markup*. We'd be thrilled to see how far you
can go with a cool WordPress template, corporate website, widget or even
a game to show the power and flexibility of this system. Feel free to
use multiple scoped, themes, too â€” go wild.

### How to enter

We're going to keep this simple: post a comment with a brief description
of your project and a link to a functioning example. The winner will be
decided by Filament Group based on the creativity, quality and
inventiveness of their project.

### Contest rules

-   Everyone is eligible, no exceptions.
-   You may submit any type of project that uses the [jQuery UI CSS
    framework](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Theming/API): public sites,
    demo pages or anything else that shows off your creativity and is
    publicly accessible (read: not behind a login).
-   You may enter as many unique projects as you wish; each will count
    as a separate entry. (Please don't post the same one over and
    over...that may count against you).
-   The entry deadline is Wednesday, February 25, 2009 at midnight.
-   The contest winner will be announced on Friday, February 27, 2009.
-   The winner will receive a single pass to the SXSW Interactive
    Festival, which includes admission to the SXSW Web Awards ceremony
    on Sunday, March 15. We will email you an access code that will
    allow your to register for free. (NOTE: the pass does not provide
    entry to the Film or Music festivals, nor does it include
    transportation, room/board, or meals â€” you'll need to cover those
    yourself.)
-   jQuery UI and Filament Group Inc. reserve the right to link to your
    project (we want to promote your hard work).

### A little inspiration

To show off what is possible with the jQuery UI CSS framework, here is a
really fantastic example of a plugin that uses the framework really
well, from styles to icons. Nicolas Rudas created a very cool
[Apple-style file
browser](http://www.nicolas.rudas.info/jQuery/Finder/v0.6a/) that also
includes the theme switcher dropdown for good measure. He's taken this a
step further by creating a [jQuery API
browser](http://www.nicolas.rudas.info/jQuery/Finder/v0.6a/api.html)
that uses his plugin. Very cool indeed. (NOTE: Nicolas Rudas was not
notified prior to the announcement of this contest, so Nicolas, if you'd
like to enter you're still eligible to win. How's that for competition?)
[![image](http://filamentgroup.com/images/example_columnbrowser.png)](http://www.nicolas.rudas.info/jQuery/Finder/v0.6a/)
There is a [list of plugins that use the CSS
framework](http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Theming/ThemeRollerReady) on the
documentation wiki but it's pretty short at the moment and we're hoping
that this contest really gets people fired up to try out the framework
for themselves. **So...get to it, show us what you've got!**

### Check out the contest here: [Contest: Win a Free Pass to SXSW Interactive for the Coolest Use of the jQuery UI CSS Framework](http://www.filamentgroup.com/lab/contest_for_coolest_use_of_the_jquery_css_framework_win_a_free_pass_to_sxsw/)
