After a long hiatus, I'm happy to present another roundup of jQuery
happenings. Keep in mind that this is just a small, fairly random
sampling of what has been going on. For more frequent news and
announcements, be sure to follow
[@jquery](http://www.twitter.com/jquery) on Twitter.

### jQuery Updates

Brandon Aaron has been writing a series called "jQuery Edge" on his
blog, detailing some of the cool enhancements in store for the next
version of jQuery. His most recent, [New Special Event
Hooks](http://brandonaaron.net/blog/2009/06/4/jquery-edge-new-special-event-hooks),
describes the four "hooks" that make up the new custom event API: setup,
teardown, add, and remove. It's a must-read for anyone working with
event-driven jQuery scripts.

### Plugins

Ben Alman describes his [jQuery iff plugin: a chainable "if"
statement](http://benalman.com/projects/jquery-iff-plugin/). Pete
Higgins of [Dojo](http://www.dojotoolkit.org/) fame has written a
[jQuery pub/sub plugin](http://higginsforpresident.net/js/jq.pubsub.js),
"loosely based on the Dojo publish/subscribe API." His plugin joins
other publish/subscribe plugins such as
[Fling](http://www.command-tab.com/2008/12/04/jquery-fling/) and [jQuery
Subscribe/Publish](http://plugins.jquery.com/project/jQuerySubscribe).
Paul Irish has ported a [YUI3
script](http://www.nczonline.net/blog/2009/06/02/detecting-if-the-user-is-idle-with-javascript-and-yui-3/)
to jQuery for his [idleTimer
plugin](http://paulirish.com/2009/jquery-idletimer-plugin/). The plugin
detects when a user has become idle. Jonathan Sharp released an [XMLDom
plugin](http://outwestmedia.com/jquery-plugins/xmldom/), which "takes a
string of XML and converts it into an XML DOM object for use with
jQuery."

### Tutorials

Janko Jovanovic explains his proof-of-concept for [Advanced docking
using
jQuery](http://www.jankoatwarpspeed.com/post/2009/05/30/Advanced-docking-using-jQuery.aspx)
Azam Sharp examines [Unit Testing JavaScript Using JQuery
QUnit](http://highoncoding.com/Articles/570_Unit_Testing_JavaScript_Using_JQuery_QUnit.aspx).
Andy Matthews begins a screencast series on jQuery and Air. His first
post explores [creating a new AIR project in
Aptana](http://andymatthews.net/read/2009/05/26/jQuery-and-AIR:-Creating-a-new-AIR-project-in-Aptana).

### Interviews

In an audio interview, [Nathan Smith and Matt Vasquez
discuss](http://www.leveltendesign.com/podcast/jquery-javascript-nathan-smith-and-matt-vasquez)
their use of jQuery. Drew Douglass [interviewed me recently for
Nettuts](http://net.tutsplus.com/articles/interviews/jquerified-with-karl-swedberg/).

### Miscellaneous

A new site, [jQuery List](http://jquerylist.com/) assembles a list of
links to an enormous number of jQuery plugins and code examples on a
single page.
