Another week, another collection of links to some of the most
interesting and exciting new jQuery happenings around the web. One of
the most interesting happenings this week was the release of
[Glimmer](http://visitmix.com/lab/glimmer). Glimmer allows you to easily
create interactive elements on your web pages by harnessing the power of
the jQuery library. Without having to hand-craft your JavaScript code,
you can use Glimmerâ€™s wizards to generate jQuery scripts for common
interactive scenarios. Glimmer also has an advanced mode, providing a
design surface for creating jQuery effects based on your existing HTML
and CSS. Also worth mentioning is the great new facelift given to the
[jQuery for Designers site](http://jqueryfordesigners.com/) from [Remy
Sharp](http://remysharp.com/). And if you haven't notice
[Wrox](http://www.wrox.com/) has released a new book, [Beginning
JavaScript and CSS Development with
jQuery](http://www.wrox.com/WileyCDA/WroxTitle/Beginning-JavaScript-and-CSS-Development-with-jQuery.productCd-0470227796.html).
A review of the book is forthcoming.

### Articles this Week

-   [Yehuda Katz](http://yehudakatz.com/) discusses, [The Rise Of
    jQuery](http://www.visitmix.com/Articles/The-Rise-Of-jQuery).
-   [StÃ©phane Caron](http://www.no-margin-for-errors.com/) debunks some
    selector performance information with his blog post, [Demystifying
    the jQuery selectors
    optimization](http://www.no-margin-for-errors.com/2009/04/28/demystifying-the-jquery-selectors-optimization/)

### Tutorials this Week

-   Marc Grabanski is continuing the [series on jQuery and Google
    Maps](http://marcgrabanski.com/article/jquery-google-maps-tutorial-basics)
    with a follow up tutorial, [jQuery and Google Maps \#2: AJAX Storing
    and Retrieving
    Points](http://marcgrabanski.com/article/jquery-google-maps-tutorial-ajax-php-mysql).

### Plugins this Week

-   [Asual](http://www.asual.com/), the makers of
    [swfAddress](http://www.asual.com/swfaddress/) have released [jQuery
    Address](http://www.asual.com/jquery/address/), a deep linking
    plugin
-   [Adam Shaw](http://arshaw.com) released a [Full Calendar
    Plugin](http://arshaw.com/fullcalendar/)

### Plugin Spotlight

Pulled from my own personal archives. I bring you, the [Query ListNav
Plugin](http://www.ihwy.com/Labs/jquery-listnav-plugin.aspx) from [iHwy,
Inc..](http://www.ihwy.com/Default.aspx) You may or may not have missed
this plugin, but regardless, it's certainly worth a first look, or
second.

### Tools Released this Week

Howie Weiner, in addition to his [960.gs grid overlay
plugin](http://www.badlydrawntoy.com/2009/04/21/960gs-grid-overlay-a-jquery-plugin/),
is now providing a [bookmarklet
version](http://www.badlydrawntoy.com/2009/04/23/grid960-a-grid-overlay-bookmarklet-for-960gs/).

### And the typical "Best of..." from this week

-   [10 Best jQuery Plugins for working with
    Tables](http://www.ajaxline.com/10-best-jquery-plugins-for-working-with-tables)
-   [20 Excellent JavaScript Navigation Techniques and
    Examples](http://sixrevisions.com/javascript/20-excellent-javascript-navigation-techniques-and-examples/)

### jQuery Gossip/Rumor Mill

Word on the street is that O'Reilly has in the works a jQuery cookbook
authored and edited by several core team members. Additionally, I'm
hearing whispers of another cookbook specifically tailored for jQuery
Designers. And remember, for up to the minute jQuery happenings, you can
follow the official jQuery twitter profiles
[jquery](http://twitter.com/jquery),
[jqueryui](http://twitter.com/jqueryui), and
[jquerysites](http://twitter.com/jquerysites). Also, don't be afraid to
contact us (thisweekinjquery (at) gmail.com) if you feel we missed any
noteworthy information or would like to submit noteworthy happenings for
next week.
