Reading documentation, blogs, and forums are useful ways to learn how to
use jQuery, but there is ultimately no substitute for actually writing
code. That's why we've been collaborating with [Code
School](http://www.codeschool.com) to create [Try
jQuery](http://try.jquery.com), a brand new introductory course with
video and interactive examples to make it easier to take those first
steps. [![Try jQuery Course
Badge](http://blog.jquery.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/try-jquery.png "try-jquery")](http://try.jquery.com)
Try jQuery walks you through the most fundamental building blocks of
jQuery, from actually getting the library into your page to selecting,
manipulating, and creating DOM elements, and reacting to user input. The
entire experience takes place in the browser, so there's live feedback
on your code as you complete the exercises and learn the basics. The
course takes about three hours to complete, but you can take it all at
your own pace. Best of all, Try jQuery is completely free! If you'd like
to save your progress and earn badges, you can sign up with Code School.
We're really glad to be able to provide new jQuery users with an easy
way to get started. So if you're looking to understand how to use jQuery
— or know someone else who is — we hope [Try
jQuery](http://try.jquery.com) helps get you in gear! Should you
encounter any trouble with the course, please [contact Code
School](http://codeschool.com/support). If you'd like want to provide
feedback on Try jQuery, you can get in touch with us at [content at
jquery dot com](mailto:content@jquery.com), and you can also reach out
to [Code School](http://codeschool.com/support).
