The jQuery UI team has had a busy and productive fall and wanted to give
everyone an update on what we've been up to.Â  First off, we're happy to
announce that **our team** of contributors **has grown** significantly
in the past few months and want to thank everyone for their support. To
round out the great group of developers on the core team, **new sub
teams** and team roles have been created, to focus on areas such as
evangelism, design, builds, testing, website, and documentation. Most
noticeable is the recent activity of the **Interaction Design** sub team
focusing on UI design, widget planning, and theming. To learn more about
who's on the team and what we all like to do, check out the [jQuery UI
team page](http://ui.jquery.com/about). Also, we are pleased to announce
that **[Filament Group](http://www.filamentgroup.com/) is now an
official sponsor** of jQuery UI, making up most of our Interaction
Design team. Thank you.

### When's 1.6 coming?

The **1.6rc3** release is being wrapped up and will be out **within a
week**. Our goal is to have **1.6 final out** still **in December**.
We've decided to cut back the number of new additions in order to
re-factor the existing plugins for improved accessibility, performance,
and theming. In this release, the only **new plugin** will be the
[determinate **progress
bar**](http://jqueryui.pbwiki.com/ProgressIndicator). The autocomplete,
colorpicker, and spinner plugins have been moved into a future release
(to allow time for further refactoring, not delaying 1.6 any further),
while magnifier has been moved into experimental again, soon to be
released as external plugin at Paul Bakaus' homepage (more on that in
the next final release announcement). With a better planning process in
place now (see below), we're confident removing plugins from a release
candidate won't happen in the future, and we apologize for any trouble
it might have introduced for you.

### What's 1.6 all about?

One of the most exciting changes arriving with the final version of 1.6
is a complete re-factor of the CSS class framework used across all the
jQuery UI widgets. This will build on the ideas of the original
ThemeRoller tool, but extend the system to be a **rich UI class
framework** that can be used across **all plugins**, both **internal**
and **external**. Here is just a partial list of what's in the works:

-   New classes for error, highlight and disabled states
-   Extended, **sprite-based** ThemeRoller **icon set**
-   Class system for adding **rounded corners** via CSS (Firefox and
    Webkit, gracefully degrades)
-   **New ThemeRoller** tool with inspector style view
-   Theme gallery with voting and user-generated themes
-   **Improved documentation** for generating custom themes and using
    the class framework

You can learn more about the new ThemeRoller app and class framework [on
our new wiki](http://jqueryui.pbwiki.com/Themeroller).

### What are y'all working on?

To keep us organized and make the planning process more transparent to
the community, we've created a **new design and planning wiki** at
[http://jqueryui.pbwiki.com/](http://jqueryui.pbwiki.com/). On the wiki,
we've been refining and detailing our processes for growing the team and
the project, accepting and reviewing contributions, and prioritizing new
plugins into a **roadmap**. By channeling ideas and decisions made on
the [jQuery UI Dev google
group](http://groups.google.com/group/jquery-ui-dev/) conversations into
the wiki, we hope to provide a **single, unified view** of our current
thinking, so we're all in sync. To see what we're up to, a summary of
the current development status can always be found at the top of the
wiki homepage. (Note:
[http://docs.jquery.com/UI](http://docs.jquery.com/UI) will continue as
the end-user documentation/production wiki for jQuery UI)

### How can I help?

One big part of the wiki is collecting a long list of ideas for future
plugins that we might want to include in the jQuery UI library. So far,
we've created a sortable table on the wiki homepage with **over 50
plugins** with planning information for the highest priority items. Each
plugin has a detail page where we can collect best practices, visual
designs, sample markup and style, accessibility considerations and track
the status of the development. We hope to have a **vibrant
conversation** with the **community** and engage as many **designers and
developers** in the process, so please feel free to add comments, edit
pages, and link to examples on the wiki. We've just started the plugin
design and specification process so this is a great time to **get
involved** and **help us shape the future of jQuery UI**.
