[![](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2404/2238779334_2ba87836b4_m.jpg)](http://flickr.com/photos/jeresig/2238779334/)\
[Paul Bakaus](http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulbakaus) (jQuery UI Lead)
and [John Resig](http://ejohn.org/) (jQuery Lead) working on\
 the next release of jQuery UI (1.5) and jQuery Core (1.2.3).
It's a rare treat, in distributed Open Source development, to be able to
work face-to-face with a fellow developer. Paul is located in Germany, I
in Boston - and much of the jQuery team is scattered around the globe.
He stopped into town for the weekend so that we could make sure that all
the necessary code was in jQuery core for the upcoming jQuery UI 1.5
release candidate. We also had a chance to discuss the future of jQuery
UI and plan out some of the best resource allocations for the upcoming
months. All that being said, this next release is going to be fantastic.
It's what jQuery UI 1.0 should have been. It's been rough because of all
the constraints on developer time that were in place when we first set
out with this project, but it's been getting better. [Paul now works on
jQuery UI
full-time](http://blog.jquery.com/2008/01/23/jquery-ui-and-beyond-the-jquery-liferay-partnership/)
- and [Liferay](http://liferay.com/) is putting a ton of resources
towards making sure that the future of the library will be successful.
It's really exciting to see this project grow up and start to see some
light. jQuery 1.2.3 should be released within the next couple days
(after some more testing) and jQuery UI 1.5rc1 will be announced on the
[jQuery UI mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/jquery-ui) at
about that time. [Reposted from my
blog.](http://ejohn.org/blog/workin-hard/)
![](http://ejohn.org/apps/rss/?from=rss&id=5531)
